
1. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):75. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0075-x. Epub 2014 Dec 14.

Labeling galectin-3 for the assessment of myocardial infarction in rats.

Arias T(1), Petrov A, Chen J, de Haas H, Pérez-Medina C, Strijkers GJ, Hajjar RJ,
Fayad ZA, Fuster V, Narula J.

Author information: 
(1)Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1030, New York, NY, 10029, USA,
tvarias@cnic.es.

BACKGROUND: Galectin-3 is a ß-galactoside-binding lectin expressed in most of
tissues in normal conditions and overexpressed in myocardium from early stages of
heart failure (HF). It is an established biomarker associated with extracellular 
matrix (ECM) turnover during myocardial remodeling. The aim of this study is to
test the ability of (123)I-galectin-3 (IG3) to assess cardiac remodeling in a
model of myocardial infarction (MI) using imaging techniques.
METHODS: Recombinant galectin-3 was labeled with iodine-123 and in vitro binding 
assays were conducted to test (123)I-galectin-3 ability to bind to ECM targets.
For in vivo studies, a rat model of induced-MI was used. Animals were subjected
to magnetic resonance and micro-SPETC/micro-CT imaging two (2 W-MI) or four
(4 W-MI) weeks after MI. Sham rats were used as controls. Pharmacokinetic,
biodistribution, and histological studies were also performed after intravenous
administration of IG3.
RESULTS: In vitro studies revealed that IG3 shows higher binding affinity
(measured as counts per minute, cpm) (p < 0.05) to laminin (2.45 ± 1.67 cpm),
fibronectin (4.72 ± 1.95 cpm), and collagen type I (1.88 ± 0.53 cpm) compared to 
bovine serum albumin (BSA) (0.88 ± 0.31 cpm). Myocardial quantitative IG3 uptake 
(%ID/g) was higher (p < 0.01) in the infarct of 2 W-MI rats (0.15 ± 0.04%)
compared to control (0.05 ± 0.03%). IG3 infarct uptake correlates with the extent
of scar (r s = 1, p = 0.017). Total collagen deposition in the infarct
(percentage area) was higher (p < 0.0001) at 2 W-MI (24.2 ± 5.1%) and 4 W-MI
(30.4 ± 7.5%) compared to control (1.9 ± 1.1%). However, thick collagen content
in the infarct (square micrometer stained) was higher at 4 W-MI
(20.5 ± 11.2 μm(2)) compared to control (4.7 ± 2.0 μm(2), p < 0.001) and 2 W-MI
(10.6 ± 5.1 μm(2), p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows, although preliminary, enough data to consider IG3 
as a potential contrast agent for imaging of myocardial interstitial changes in
rats after MI. Labeling strategies need to be sought to improve in vivo IG3
imaging, and if proven, galectin-3 might be used as an imaging tool for the
assessment and treatment of MI patients.

PMID: 26116131  [PubMed]


2. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):73. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0073-z. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Cyclosporin A, but not tacrolimus, negatively affects the hepatic extraction
fraction of hepatobiliary scintigraphy in liver transplant recipients.

Kaxiras A(1), Yamamoto S, Söderdahl G, Wernerson A, Axelsson R, Ericzon BG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation Surgery and CLINTEC, Karolinska University
Hospital, Huddinge, and Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden,
anastasios.kaxiras@karolinska.se.

BACKGROUND: Hepatobiliary scintigraphy using (99m)Tc-mebrofenin has been used as 
an investigation to study liver function after liver transplantation (LTx).
Hepatic extraction fraction (HEF) is a measurement of the hepatic extraction
efficiency and hepatic extraction rate. With the purpose of evaluating a possible
diverging effect of cyclosporin A (CSA) and tacrolimus (TAC) on the HEF, we
compared the HEF with biochemical and histological parameters in LTx patients
receiving either CSA or TAC.
METHODS: Thirty-nine adult patients who underwent LTx due to hepatitis C virus
(HCV) cirrhosis were evaluated. All patients underwent a 3-month and 1-year
follow-up that included hepatobiliary scintigraphy and biochemistry tests. Liver 
biopsy was performed at 1 year. These clinical parameters were compared between
the two groups, TAC (n = 15) and CSA (n = 24).
RESULTS: The average HEF was significantly lower in the CSA group compared to the
TAC group both at 3 months and 1 year after LTx. The liver biochemistry tests,
average donor and recipient age, average cold ischemia time (CIT), and a
clearance were comparable in the two groups. The TAC group had more inflammation 
than the CSA group. Moreover, three patients who converted from CSA to TAC
increased their HEF values.
CONCLUSIONS: CSA-treated patients presented a lower HEF value on hepatobiliary
scintigraphy in spite of comparable liver function by traditional measurements
indicating a decrease on HEF values by CSA.

PMID: 26116130  [PubMed]


3. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):72. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0072-0. Epub 2014 Dec 14.

Effects on the FDG distribution by a high uptake of brown adipose tissue at PET
examination.

Lindholm H(1), Brolin F, Jonsson C, Jacobsson H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Karolinska University Hospital Solna, SE-171 76,
Stockholm, Sweden, henry.lindholm@karolinska.se.

BACKGROUND: At fluorodeoxyglucose/positron emission tomography (FDG/PET)
examinations, a generally increased uptake of the skeletal muscles is sometimes
encountered. As the tracer distribution constitutes a 'zero-sum-game', the uptake
of lesions as well as of normal tissues is reduced in these patients. This has to
be considered at calculation of standardised uptake values (SUVs), especially at 
longitudinal examinations in the same patient. In the current study, a possible
similar influence on the FDG distribution by a high uptake of brown adipose
tissue (BAT) was studied.
METHODS: Twelve patients with strongly increased BAT uptake were examined twice
with a mean of 5 days (study group). In six of these patients, there was at least
one pathological lesion with increased uptake. The BAT uptake was normalised at
the second examination after pretreatment with propranolol. SUVs of the
pathological lesions and of the liver, spleen, lung, blood, skeletal muscles,
bone marrow, gluteal fat, abdomen and heart were assessed. In order to control
the effects of propranolol on normal organs/tissues, which could interfere with
the findings, 25 age and gender matched normal controls were also studied
(control subjects).
RESULTS: In the study group, there was only a lower bone marrow uptake after
propranolol administration. Comparing the study group with the control subjects, 
the bone marrow activity was higher at examination before propranolol treatment
compared to the control subjects. There was also a higher uptake of the spleen in
the study group before propranolol treatment compared to the control subjects.
There were no differences between the study group after propranolol
administration and the control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: The differences found are small and cannot be explained, why they
could be random phenomena. Together with, there were no differences between the
study group after propranolol administration and the control subjects; it is
concluded that an effect on the FDG distribution in patients with a strong BAT
uptake by can be disregarded in clinical praxis. This is important at
longitudinal examinations of patients undergoing tailored tumour therapy and in
contrast to examinations in patients with a generally increased uptake of the
skeletal muscles which significantly affects the distribution of the
radiopharmaceutical.

PMID: 26116129  [PubMed]


4. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):71. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0071-1. Epub 2014 Dec 29.

Toxicity and radiation dosimetry studies of the serotonin transporter radioligand
[(18) F]AFM in rats and monkeys.

Huang YY(1), Cheng CY, Huang WS, Ma KH, Tseng TW, Chou TK, Huang Y, Shiue CY.

Author information: 
(1)PET Center, Department of Nuclear Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, 325 
Sec. 2, Cheng-Kung Road, Taipei, 114, Taiwan, careyyh@ntuh.gov.tw.

BACKGROUND: [(18) F]AFM is a potent and promising PET imaging agent for the
serotonin transporter. We carried out an acute toxicity study in rats and
radiation dosimetry in monkeys before the translation of the tracer to humans.
METHODS: Single- and multiple-dose toxicity studies were conducted in
Sprague-Dawley rats. Male and female rats were injected intravenously with AFM
tartrate as a single dose of 98.7 or 987 μg/kg (592 or 5,920 μg/m(2), 100× or
1,000× the proposed human dose of 8 μg, respectively) on day 1 or as five
consecutive daily doses of 98.7 μg/kg/day (592 μg /m(2)/day, 100× human dose,
total dose 493.5 μg/kg). PET/CT scans were performed in four Formosan rock
monkeys (two males and two females, each monkey scanned twice) using a Siemens
BIOGRAPH scanner. After injection of [(18) F]AFM (88.5 ± 20.3 MBq), a low-dose CT
scan and a series of eight whole-body PET scans in 3-D mode were performed.
Time-activity data of source organs were used to calculate the residence times
and estimate the absorbed radiation dose using the OLINDA/EXM software.
RESULTS: In the rats, neither the single dose nor the five daily doses of AFM
tartrate produced overt adverse effects clinically. In the monkeys, the radiation
doses received by most organs ranged between 8.3 and 39.1 μGy/MBq. The osteogenic
cells, red marrow, and lungs received the highest doses of 39.1, 35.4, and 35.1
μGy/MBq, respectively. The effective doses extrapolated to male and female adult 
humans were 18.0 and 18.3 μSv/MBq, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Toxicity studies in Sprague-Dawley rats and radiation dosimetry
studies in Formosa rock monkeys suggest that [(18) F]AFM is safe for use in human
PET imaging studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: IACUC-12-200.

PMID: 26116128  [PubMed]


5. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):67. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0067-x. Epub 2014 Dec 16.

Factors affecting the stability and repeatability of gamma camera calibration for
quantitative imaging applications based on a retrospective review of clinical
data.

Anizan N(1), Wang H, Zhou XC, Hobbs RF, Wahl RL, Frey EC.

Author information: 
(1)The Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns 
Hopkins University, 601 North Caroline Street/JHOC 4263, Baltimore, Maryland,
21287, USA, ndartia1@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Absolute quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography
(SPECT) has several important applications including monitoring tumor response
after treatment and dose estimation for targeted radionuclide therapy treatment
planning. Obtaining quantitative SPECT images in absolute activity units requires
the use of a calibration factor, and the repeatability of this directly affects
the repeatability of image quantification. This study focused on evaluating the
factors affecting the repeatability of a calibration factor measured using a
planar image of an in-air calibration source.
METHODS: The calibration factors calculated as part of (131)I-tositumomab patient
dosimetry scans used in treatment planning performed over a 4-year period were
retrospectively analyzed. Raw data included total counts in whole-body images of 
a radioactive calibration source, the activity of the source measured in a
radionuclide activity meter (often referred to as a dose calibrator), and the
background count rate obtained at three time points for each patient. The count
rate from extrinsic flood source acquisitions and radionuclide activity meter
constancy obtained on the same day as each image were also used. The data were
analyzed statistically using a mixed-effects model to determine the factors
affecting variations in the measured calibration factors.
RESULTS: The global variability in the calibration factor was equal to 2.3% and
was decreased by 20% to 1.8%, when the decay-corrected measurements of
calibration source activity were averaged over the three time points for each
patient. Camera sensitivity variation measured using a (57)Co sheet source was
small and had a weak relationship to calibration factor variations. When the
averaged source activity was used, the main source of variance was related to
preparation and measurement of the source (77%). Radionuclide activity meter
constancy had a smaller but statistically significant impact on the calibration
factor.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that calibration factors based on planar
measurements have good reproducibility. The findings of this study indicate (1)
the importance of accurate and precise preparation and measurement of the
calibration source activity, (2) the need to carefully control background
activity during calibration factor assessment and patient data acquisition, and
(3) that the calibration factor and camera sensitivity were stable over time,
indicating that careful but less frequent calibration is needed.

PMID: 26116127  [PubMed]


6. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):66. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0066-y. Epub 2014 Dec 5.

An evaluation of the brain distribution of [(11)C]GSK1034702, a muscarinic-1 (M
1) positive allosteric modulator in the living human brain using positron
emission tomography.

Ridler K(1), Cunningham V, Huiban M, Martarello L, Pampols-Maso S, Passchier J,
Gunn RN, Searle G, Abi-Dargham A, Slifstein M, Watson J, Laruelle M, Rabiner EA.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Imaging Centre, GlaxoSmithKline, Burlington Danes Building,
Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London, UK, k.ridler@cantab.net.

BACKGROUND: The ability to quantify the capacity of a central nervous system
(CNS) drug to cross the human blood-brain barrier (BBB) provides valuable
information for de-risking drug development of new molecules. Here, we present a 
study, where a suitable positron emission tomography (PET) ligand was not
available for the evaluation of a potent muscarinic acetylcholine receptor type-1
(M1) allosteric agonist (GSK1034702) in the primate and human brain. Hence,
direct radiolabelling of the novel molecule was performed and PET measurements
were obtained and combined with in vitro equilibrium dialysis assays to enable
assessment of BBB transport and estimation of the free brain concentration of
GSK1034702 in vivo.
METHODS: GSK1034702 was radiolabelled with (11)C, and the brain distribution of
[(11)C]GSK1034702 was investigated in two anaesthetised baboons and four healthy 
male humans. In humans, PET scans were performed (following intravenous injection
of [(11)C]GSK1034702) at baseline and after a single oral 5-mg dose of
GSK1034702. The in vitro brain and plasma protein binding of GSK1034702 was
determined across a range of species using equilibrium dialysis.
RESULTS: The distribution of [(11)C]GSK1034702 in the primate brain was
homogenous and the whole brain partition coefficient (V T) was 3.97. In contrast,
there was mild regional heterogeneity for GSK1034702 in the human brain. Human
whole brain V T estimates (4.9) were in broad agreement with primate V T and the 
f P/f ND ratio (3.97 and 2.63, respectively), consistent with transport by
passive diffusion across the BBB.
CONCLUSION: In primate and human PET studies designed to evaluate the transport
of a novel M1 allosteric agonist (GSK1034702) across the BBB, we have
demonstrated good brain uptake and BBB passage consistent with passive diffusion 
or active influx. These studies discharged some of the perceived development
risks for GSK1034702 and provided information to progress the molecule into the
next stage of clinical development.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical trial details: 'Brain Uptake of GSK1034702: a
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Scan Study.'; clinicaltrial.gov identifier:
NCT00937846 .

PMID: 26116126  [PubMed]


7. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):64. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0064-0. Epub 2014 Nov 30.

ABC transporter-dependent brain uptake of the 5-HT1B receptor radioligand [
(11)C]AZ10419369: a comparative PET study in mouse, rat, and guinea pig.

Tóth M(1), Häggkvist J, Varrone A, Finnema SJ, Doorduin J, Tokunaga M, Higuchi M,
Gulyás B, Halldin C.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Psychiatry Research, Department of Clinical Neuroscience,
Karolinska Institutet, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden, Miklos.Toth@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: We have explored the possibility that the serotonin 1B receptor
radioligand [(11)C]AZ10419369 is a substrate for adenosine triphosphate
(ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, such as P-glycoprotein (P-gp), Mrp4,
and Bcrp, in rodents and whether there is a species difference regarding its
blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration.
METHODS: In a series of preclinical positron emission tomography measurements, we
have administered [(11)C]AZ10419369 to mice, rats, and guinea pigs under baseline
conditions and, on separate experimental days, after administration of the ABC
transporter inhibitor, cyclosporin A (CsA).
RESULTS: During baseline conditions, the brain uptake was low in mice and rats,
but not in guinea pigs. After CsA pretreatment, the peak whole brain uptake
values of [(11)C]AZ10419369 increased by 207% in mice, 94% in rats, and 157% in
guinea pigs. Binding potentials (BPND) could not be estimated during baseline
conditions in mice and rats. After CsA pretreatment, the highest BPND values were
obtained in the striatum and thalamus (BPND ≈ 0.4) in mice, while in rats, the
highest binding areas were the striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus, and
periaqueductal gray (BPND ≈ 0.5). In guinea pigs, we did not find any significant
changes in BPND between baseline and CsA pretreatment, except in the striatum.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that BBB penetration of [(11)C]AZ10419369 was
hindered by ABC transporter activity in mouse, rat, and guinea pig. This study
highlights the importance of ABC transporters in the design of preclinical
positron emission tomography (PET) studies.

PMID: 26116125  [PubMed]


8. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):63. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0063-1. Epub 2014 Nov 25.

Synthesis and preclinical evaluation of DOTAGA-conjugated PSMA ligands for
functional imaging and endoradiotherapy of prostate cancer.

Weineisen M(1), Simecek J, Schottelius M, Schwaiger M, Wester HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Radiochemistry, Technical University Munich,
Walther-Meißner-Str. 3, 85748, Garching, Germany, martina.weineisen@tum.de.

BACKGROUND: Due to its high expression in prostate cancer, PSMA
(prostate-specific membrane antigen) represents an ideal target for both
diagnostic imaging and endoradiotherapeutic approaches. Based on a previously
published highly specific PSMA ligand ([(68)Ga]DOTA-FFK(Sub-KuE)), we developed a
corresponding metabolically stable 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododececane,1-(glutaric
acid)-4,7,10-triacetic acid (DOTAGA) construct for theranostic treatment of
prostate cancer.
METHODS: All ligands were synthesized by a combined solid phase and solution
phase synthesis strategy. The affinity of the (nat)gallium and lutetium complexes
to PSMA and the internalization efficiency of the radiotracers were determined on
PSMA-expressing LNCaP cells. The (68)Ga- and (177)Lu-labelled ligands were
further investigated for lipophilicity, binding specificity, metabolic stability,
as well as biodistribution and μPET in LNCaP-tumour-bearing mice.
RESULTS: Radiochemical yields for (68)Ga (3 nmol, 5.0 M NaCl/2.7 M HEPES
(approximately 5/1), pH 3.5 to 4.5, 5 min, 95°C) and (177)Lu labelling (0.7 nmol,
0.1 M NH4OAc, pH 5.5, 30 min, 95°C) were almost quantitative, resulting in
specific activities of 250 to 300 GBq/μmol for the (68)Ga analogues and
38 GBq/μmol for (177)Lu complexes. Due to metabolic instability of L-amino acid
spacers, D-amino acids were implemented resulting in a metabolically stable
DOTAGA ligand. Compared to the DOTA ligand, the DOTAGA derivatives showed higher 
hydrophilicity (logP = -3.6 ± 0.1 and -3.9 ± 0.1 for (68)Ga and (177)Lu,
respectively) and improved affinity to PSMA resulting in an about twofold
increased specific internalization of the (68)Ga- and (177)Lu-labelled DOTAGA
analogue. Especially, [(68)Ga]DOTAGA-ffk(Sub-KuE) exhibits favourable
pharmacokinetics, low unspecific uptake and high tumour accumulation in
LNCaP-tumour-bearing mice.
CONCLUSIONS: The pair of diagnostic/therapeutic PSMA-ligands
[(68)Ga/(177)Lu]DOTAGA-ffk(Sub-KuE) possess remarkable potential for the
management of prostate cancer.

PMID: 26116124  [PubMed]


9. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):62. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0062-2. Epub 2014 Nov 30.

Strategy to develop a MAO-A-resistant 5-hydroxy-L-[β-(11)C]tryptophan
isotopologue based on deuterium kinetic isotope effects.

Eriksson J(1), Åberg O, Selvaraju RK, Antoni G, Johansson L, Eriksson O.

Author information: 
(1)Preclinical PET Platform (PPP), Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala
University, Dag Hammarskjölds väg 14C, 3tr, SE-751 83, Uppsala, Sweden,
Jonas.p.eriksson@akademiska.se.

BACKGROUND: The serotonin precursor 5-hydroxy-L-[β-(11)C]tryptophan ([(11)C]HTP) 
is in clinical use for localization of neuroendocrine tumors and has been
suggested as a proxy marker for pancreatic islet cells. However, degradation by
monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A) reduces retention and the contrast to non-endocrine
tissue.
METHODS: A synthesis method was developed for 5-hydroxy-L-[β-
(11)C(2)H]tryptophan ([(11)C]DHTP), an isotopologue of [(11)C]HTP, labeled with
(11)C and (2)H at the β-position adjacent to the carbon involved in MAO-A
decarboxylation. MAO-A-mediated degradation of [(11)C]DHTP was evaluated and
compared to non-deuterated [(11)C]HTP.
RESULTS: [(11)C]DHTP was synthesized with a radiochemical purity of >98%,
radioactivity of 620 ± 190 MBq, and deuterium ((2)H or (2)H2) incorporation at
the β-position of 22% ±5%. Retention and resistance to MAO-A-mediated degradation
of [(11)C]DHTP were increased in cells but not in non-human primate pancreas.
CONCLUSIONS: Partial deuteration of the β-position yields improved resistance to 
MAO-A-mediated degradation in vitro but not in vivo.

PMID: 26116123  [PubMed]


10. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0061-3. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

In vivo bioluminescence imaging for viable human neural stem cells incorporated
within in situ gelatin hydrogels.

Hwang do W(1), Park KM, Shim HK, Jin Y, Oh HJ, Oh SW, Lee S, Youn H, Joung YK,
Lee HJ, Kim SU, Park KD, Lee DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
28 Yongon-Dong, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, 110-744, Republic of Korea,
hdw6592@hanmail.net.

BACKGROUND: Three-dimensional (3D) hydrogel-based stem cell therapies contribute 
to enhanced therapeutic efficacy in treating diseases, and determining the
optimal mechanical strength of the hydrogel in vivo is important for therapeutic 
success. We evaluated the proliferation of human neural stem cells incorporated
within in situ-forming hydrogels and compared the effect of hydrogels with
different elastic properties in cell/hydrogel-xenografted mice.
METHODS: The gelatin-polyethylene glycol-tyramine (GPT) hydrogel was fabricated
through enzyme-mediated cross-linking reaction using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)
and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2).
RESULTS: The F3-effluc encapsulated within a soft 1,800 pascal (Pa) hydrogel and 
stiff 5,800 Pa hydrogel proliferated vigorously in a 24-well plate until day 8.
In vitro and in vivo kinetics of luciferase activity showed a slow time-to-peak
after D-luciferin administration in the stiff hydrogel. When in vivo
proliferation of F3-effluc was observed up to day 21 in both the hydrogel group
and cell-only group, F3-effluc within the soft hydrogel proliferated more
vigorously, compared to the cells within the stiff hydrogel. Ki-67-specific
immunostaining revealed highly proliferative F3-effluc with compactly distributed
cell population inside the 1,800 Pa or 5,800 Pa hydrogel.
CONCLUSIONS: We examined the in vivo effectiveness of different elastic types of 
hydrogels encapsulating viable neural stem cells by successfully monitoring the
proliferation of implanted stem cells incorporated within a 3D hydrogel scaffold.

PMID: 26116122  [PubMed]


11. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):60. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0060-4. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

Immuno-PET of epithelial ovarian cancer: harnessing the potential of CA125 for
non-invasive imaging.

Sharma SK(1), Wuest M, Wang M, Glubrecht D, Andrais B, Lapi SE, Wuest F.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Alberta, 8613 -
114 Street, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2H1, Canada, saikiran@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is characterized by the
overexpression of cancer antigen 125 (CA125), a mucinous glycoprotein that serves
as a tumor biomarker. Early diagnosis of EOC is plagued by its asymptomatic
nature of progression and the limitations of currently used immunoassay
techniques that detect CA125 as a shed antigen in serum samples. Presently, there
is no technique available for the in vivo evaluation of CA125 expression in
malignant tissues. Moreover, there could be an unexplored pathophysiological time
window for the detection of CA125 in EOC, during which it is expressed on tumor
cells prior to being shed into the bloodstream. A method for the in vivo
evaluation of CA125 expression on ovarian neoplasms earlier along disease
progression and/or recurrence can potentially contribute to better disease
management. To this end, the present work utilizes an anti-CA125 monoclonal
antibody (MAb) and a single-chain variable fragment (scFv) labeled with the
positron-emitting radionuclide (64)Cu for preclinical molecular imaging of CA125 
expression in vivo.
METHODS: Anti-CA125 MAb and scFv were prepared and functionally characterized for
target binding prior to being tested as radiotracers in a preclinical setting.
RESULTS: Immunoblotting, immunofluorescence, and flow cytometry revealed specific
binding of CA125-targeting vectors to NIH:OVCAR-3 cells and no binding to
antigen-negative SKOV3 cells. (64)Cu-labeled anti-CA125 MAb and scFv were
obtained in specific activities of 296 and 122 MBq/mg, respectively. Both
radioimmunoconjugate vectors demonstrated highly selective binding to NIH:OVCAR-3
cells and virtually no binding to SKOV3 cells. In vivo radiopharmacological
evaluation using xenograft mouse models injected with (64)Cu-labeled anti-CA125
MAb provided a standardized uptake value (SUV) of 5.76 (29.70 %ID/g) in OVCAR3
tumors 24 h post-injection (p.i.) versus 1.80 (5.91 %ID/g) in SKOV3 tumors.
(64)Cu-labeled anti-CA125 scFv provided an SUV of 0.64 (3.21 %ID/g) in OVCAR3
tumors 24 h p.i. versus 0.25 (1.49 %ID/g) in SKOV3 tumors. Results from
small-animal PET imaging were confirmed by ex vivo autoradiography and
immunohistochemistry.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiolabeling of anti-CA125 MAb and scFv with (64)Cu did not
compromise their immunoreactivity. Both radioimmunoconjugates presented specific 
tumor uptake and expected biological clearance profiles. This renders them as
potential immuno-PET probes for targeted in vivo molecular imaging of CA125 in
EOC.

PMID: 26116121  [PubMed]


12. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):59. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0059-x. Epub 2014 Oct 31.

Evaluation of retinol binding protein 4 and carbamoylated haemoglobin as
potential renal toxicity biomarkers in adult mice treated with
(177)Lu-octreotate.

Dalmo J(1), Westberg E, Barregard L, Svedbom L, Johansson M, Törnqvist M,
Forssell-Aronsson E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska
Cancer Centre, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska
University Hospital, Gothenburg, SE-413 45, Sweden, johanna.dalmo@radfys.gu.se.

BACKGROUND: The kidneys are regarded as one of the main dose-limiting organs in
the treatment of neuroendocrine tumours with (177)Lu-[DOTA(0), Tyr(3)]-octreotate
((177)Lu-octreotate), despite the successful use of kidney uptake blocking agents
such as lysine and arginine. To avoid renal toxicity but still give each patient 
as high amount of (177)Lu-octreotate as possible, there is a need for
methods/biomarkers that indicate renal injury in an early stage of the treatment.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential of using urinary retinol
binding protein 4 (RBP4) and carbamoylated haemoglobin (Hb) in blood as
biomarkers of nephrotoxic effects on adult mice after (177)Lu-octreotate
treatment.
METHODS: Adult BALB/c nude mice were injected with 60 MBq or 120 MBq of
(177)Lu-octreotate or with saline (control). Urine was collected before injection
and concentrations of urinary RBP4 and creatinine were determined 14 to 90 days
after injection Blood samples were collected after 90 days, and carbamoylated
N-terminal valine in Hb, formed from urea, was measured as valine hydantoin (VH) 
after detachment from Hb.
RESULTS: The RBP4 values increased with administered activity and time. For the
60 and 120 MBq groups, statistically significantly higher RBP4 levels (p <0.05)
were found at day 60 and 90 compared to baseline, also at day 30 for 120 MBq
group. For VH, the mean values were similar for the 60 MBq and control groups,
while a small increase was observed for the 120 MBq group; but there were no
statistically significant differences between any of the groups (p >0.05). No
morphological changes in the kidney tissue were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Urinary RBP4 is a promising new biomarker for radiation-induced
renal toxicity. For the conditions used in this experiment, carbamoylated Hb
(from urea) measured as VH may not be a sufficiently sensitive biomarker to be
used for renal toxicity.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ID 326-2008.

PMID: 26116120  [PubMed]


13. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0057-z. Epub 2014 Oct 9.

Potential of (99m)Tc-MIBI SPECT imaging for evaluating non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis induced by methionine-choline-deficient diet in mice.

Rokugawa T(1), Uehara T, Higaki Y, Matsushima S, Obata A, Arano Y, Abe K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Research Laboratory for
Development, Shionogi & Co., Ltd., 3-1-1, Futaba-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka, 561-0825, 
Japan, takemi.rokugawa@shionogi.co.jp.

BACKGROUND: Hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in pathological
conditions leading to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
Technetium-99 m-2-methoxyisobutyl-isonitrile ((99m)Tc-MIBI), a lipophilic
cationic myocardial perfusion agent, is retained in the mitochondria depending on
membrane potential. The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of
(99m)Tc-MIBI for evaluating the hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction induced by
methionine-choline-deficient (MCD) diet in mice.
METHODS: Male C57Black6J/jcl mice were fed a MCD diet for up to 4 weeks. SPECT
scan (N =6) with (99m)Tc-MIBI was performed at 2 and 4 weeks after MCD diet. Mice
were imaged with small-animal SPECT/CT under isoflurane anesthesia. Radioactivity
concentrations of the liver were measured, and the time of maximum (T max) and
the elimination half-life (T 1/2) were evaluated. After SPECT scan, liver
histopathology was analyzed to evaluate steatosis and inflammation. Non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) activity score was obtained from the histological
score of hepatic steatosis and inflammation. Blood biochemistry and hepatic ATP
content were also measured (N =5 to 6).
RESULTS: Plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase
(AST) levels were significantly elevated at 2 and 4 weeks after MCD diet. A
decrease in hepatic ATP content was also observed in MCD-fed mice. (99m)Tc-MIBI
SPECT imaging clearly showed the decrease of hepatic (99m)Tc-MIBI retention in
MCD-fed mice compared to control mice. T 1/2 after (99m)Tc-MIBI injection was
significantly decreased in the liver of MCD-fed mice (control, MCD 2 weeks, and
MCD 4 weeks, T 1/2 = 57.6, 37.6, and 19.8 min, respectively), although no change 
in T max was observed in MCD-fed mice. SPECT data and histological score showed
that the negative correlation (r = -0.74, p <0.05) between T 1/2 and NAFLD
activity score was significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Hepatic (99m)Tc-MIBI elimination was increased with increase in
NAFLD activity score (NAS) in mice fed MCD diet for 2 and 4 weeks. These results 
suggest that (99m)Tc-MIBI SPECT imaging might be useful for detecting hepatic
mitochondrial dysfunction induced by steatosis and inflammation such as NAFLD or 
NASH.

PMID: 26116119  [PubMed]


14. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0055-1. Epub 2014 Oct 9.

(11)C-acetate PET/CT in pre-therapeutic lymph node staging in high-risk prostate 
cancer patients and its influence on disease management - a retrospective study.

Strandberg S(1), Karlsson CT, Sundström T, Ögren M, Ögren M, Axelsson J, Riklund 
K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Sciences, Umeå University, 90185, Umeå, Sweden,
sara.strandberg@vll.se.

BACKGROUND: Radiation treatment with simultaneous integrated boost against
suspected lymph node metastases may be a curative therapeutic option in patients 
with high-risk prostate cancer (>15% estimated risk of pelvic lymph node
metastases according to the Cagiannos nomogram). (11)C-acetate positron emission 
tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) can be used for primary staging as well
as for detection of suspected relapse of prostate cancer. The aims of this study 
were to evaluate the association between positive (11)C-acetate PET/CT findings
and the estimated risk of pelvic lymph node metastases and to assess the impact
of (11)C-acetate PET/CT on patient management in high-risk prostate cancer
patients.
METHODS: Fifty consecutive prostate cancer patients referred for primary staging 
with (11)C-acetate PET/CT prior to radiotherapy with curative intention were
enrolled in this retrospective study.
RESULTS: All patients showed increased (11)C-acetate uptake in the prostate.
Pelvic lymph node uptake was seen in 42% (21/50) of the patients, with positive
external iliac lymph nodes in 71% (15/21) of these. The overall observed
proportion of PET/CT-positive pelvic lymph nodes at patient level was higher than
the average estimated risk, especially in low-risk groups (<15%). There was a
significant association between observed proportion and estimated risk of pelvic 
lymph node metastases in groups with ≤45 and >45% estimated risk. Treatment
strategy was altered due to (11)C-acetate PET/CT findings in 43% (20/47) of the
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The observed proportion of (11)C-acetate PET/CT findings suggestive 
of locoregional metastases was higher than the estimated risk, suggesting that
the Cagiannos nomogram underestimates the risk for metastases. The imaging
results with (11)C-acetate PET/CT have a considerable impact on patient
management.

PMID: 26116118  [PubMed]


15. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):54. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0054-2. Epub 2014 Oct 3.

Paclitaxel improved anti-L1CAM lutetium-177 radioimmunotherapy in an ovarian
cancer xenograft model.

Lindenblatt D(1), Fischer E, Cohrs S, Schibli R, Grünberg J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Radiopharmaceutical Sciences ETH-PSI-USZ, Paul Scherrer Institute, 
5232, Villigen PSI, Switzerland, dennis.lindenblatt@psi.ch.

BACKGROUND: Today's standard treatment of advanced-stage ovarian cancer,
including surgery followed by a paclitaxel-platinum-based chemotherapy, is
limited in efficacy. Recently, we could show that radioimmunotherapy (RIT) with
(177)Lu-labelled anti-L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) monoclonal antibody chCE7
is effective in ovarian cancer therapy. We investigated if the efficacy of
anti-L1CAM RIT can be further improved by its combination with paclitaxel (PTX).
METHODS: In vitro cell viability and cell cycle arrest of human ovarian cancer
cells were assessed upon different treatment conditions. For therapy studies,
nude mice (n = 8) were injected subcutaneously with IGROV1 human ovarian
carcinoma cells and received a single dose of 6 MBq (177)Lu-DOTA-chCE7 alone or
in combination with 600 μg PTX (31.6 mg/kg). Tumour growth delay and survival
were determined. To investigate whether PTX can influence the tumour uptake of
the radioimmunoconjugates (RICs), a biodistribution study (n = 4) and SPECT/CT
images were acquired 120 h post injections of 2 MBq (177)Lu-DOTA-chCE7 alone or
in combination with 600 μg PTX.
RESULTS: Lu-DOTA-chCE7 in combination with PTX revealed a significantly decreased
cell viability of ovarian carcinoma cells in vitro and was effective in a
synergistic manner (combination index < 1). PTX increased the RIT efficacy by
arresting cells in the radiosensitive G2/M phase of the cell cycle 24 h post
treatment start. In vivo combination therapy including (177)Lu-DOTA-chCE7 and PTX
resulted in a significantly prolonged overall survival (55 days vs. 18 days/PTX
and 29 days/RIT), without weight loss and/or signs of toxicity. Biodistribution
studies revealed no significant difference in tumour uptakes of
(177)Lu-DOTA-chCE7 72 h post injection regardless of an additional PTX
administration.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination of anti-L1CAM (177)Lu-RIT with PTX is a more effective
therapy resulting in a prolonged overall survival of human ovarian
carcinoma-bearing nude mice compared with either monotherapy. The combination is 
promising for future clinical applications.

PMID: 26116117  [PubMed]


16. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0052-4. Epub 2014 Sep 26.

Quantification of [(11)C]-meta-hydroxyephedrine uptake in human myocardium.

Harms HJ(1), de Haan S, Knaapen P, Allaart CP, Rijnierse MT, Schuit RC, Windhorst
AD, Lammertsma AA, Huisman MC, Lubberink M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, VU University Medical Center,
P.O. Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, h.harms@vumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to determine the optimal tracer kinetic
model for [(11)C]-meta-hydroxyephedrine ([(11)C]HED) and to evaluate the
performance of several simplified methods.
METHODS: Thirty patients underwent dynamic 60-min [(11)C]HED scans with online
arterial blood sampling. Single-tissue and both reversible and irreversible
two-tissue models were fitted to the data using the metabolite-corrected arterial
input function. For each model, reliable fits were defined as those yielding
outcome parameters with a coefficient of variation (CoV) <25%. The optimal model 
was determined using Akaike and Schwarz criteria and the F-test, together with
the number of reliable fits. Simulations were performed to study accuracy and
precision of each model. Finally, quantitative results obtained using a
population-averaged metabolite correction were evaluated, and simplified
retention index (RI) and standardized uptake value (SUV) results were compared
with quantitative volume of distribution (V T) data.
RESULTS: The reversible two-tissue model was preferred in 75.8% of all segments, 
based on the Akaike information criterion. However, V T derived using the
single-tissue model correlated highly with that of the two-tissue model (r
(2) = 0.94, intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) = 0.96) and showed higher
precision (CoV of 24.6% and 89.2% for single- and two-tissue models,
respectively, at 20% noise). In addition, the single-tissue model yielded
reliable fits in 94.6% of all segments as compared with 77.1% for the reversible 
two-tissue model. A population-averaged metabolite correction could not be used
in approximately 20% of the patients because of large biases in V T. RI and SUV
can provide misleading results because of non-linear relationships with V T.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the reversible two-tissue model provided the best fits, the
single-tissue model was more robust and results obtained were similar. Therefore,
the single-tissue model was preferred. RI showed a non-linear correlation with V 
T, and therefore, care has to be taken when using RI as a quantitative measure.

PMID: 26116116  [PubMed]


17. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):51. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0051-5. Epub 2014 Sep 19.

Preclinical imaging of kallikrein-related peptidase 2 (hK2) in prostate cancer
with a (111)In-radiolabelled monoclonal antibody, 11B6.

Timmermand OV(1), Ulmert D, Evans-Axelsson S, Pettersson K, Bjartell A, Lilja H, 
Strand SE, Tran TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Radiation Physics, Lund University, Barngatan 2:1, S-211
85, Lund, Sweden, oskar.vilhelmsson_timmermand@med.lu.se.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is a leading cause of death in the male population of
the western world. Human kallikrein-related peptidase 2 (hK2) is abundantly
expressed in malignant prostatic tissue, and its gene, KLK2, is regulated by the 
androgen receptor. 11B6 is a murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed against
free human hK2. In this study, we performed a preclinical evaluation of
(111)In-labelled 11B6 in mouse xenografts to investigate its potential in the
clinical staging and assessment of metastatic prostate cancer.
METHODS: 11B6 was radiolabelled with (111)In through CHX-A″-DTPA chelation. In
vivo biodistribution and uptake of (111)In-DTPA-11B6 were measured until 168 h
post-injection in NMRI nude mice bearing subcutaneous LNCaP xenografts. The
binding specificity to hK2 was evaluated by both in vivo competitive binding
assays with excess non-labelled 11B6 and hK2-negative DU145 xenografts. SPECT/CT 
imaging of subcutaneous and intra-tibial LNCaP xenografts was used to visualize
the tumours.
RESULTS: Tumour uptake of (111)In-DTPA-11B6 in LNCaP xenografts was
19% ± 0.78%IA/g at 48 h, giving a tumour-to-blood ratio of 1.6, which increases
to 2.4 at 1 week post-injection. Accumulation was low in other organs except for 
the salivary glands, which is probably the result of cross-reactivity with mouse 
kallikreins. Significantly lower tumour accumulation was observed in competitive 
assays and DU145 xenografts. SPECT/CT imaging could clearly visualize the
subcutaneous and intra-tibial LNCaP xenografts.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates the potential of (111)In-DTPA-11B6 for the
detection of metastatic prostate cancer and monitoring anti-androgen therapy, as 
it exhibits an increased uptake and accumulation in viable tumour when compared
to normal tissue. A humanised version of the 11B6 monoclonal antibody is
currently under evaluation.

PMID: 26116115  [PubMed]


18. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):50. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0050-6. Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Identification of positron emission tomography (PET) tracer candidates by
prediction of the target-bound fraction in the brain.

Fridén M(1), Wennerberg M, Antonsson M, Sandberg-Ställ M, Farde L, Schou M.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Inflammation and Autoimmunity Innovative Medicines, AstraZeneca
R&D, Mölndal, Sweden, Markus.friden@astrazeneca.com.

BACKGROUND: Development of tracers for imaging with positron emission tomography 
(PET) is often a time-consuming process associated with considerable attrition.
In an effort to simplify this process, we herein propose a mechanistically
integrated approach for the selection of tracer candidates based on in vitro
measurements of ligand affinity (Kd), non-specific binding in brain tissue
(Vu,brain), and target protein expression (Bmax).
METHODS: A dataset of 35 functional and 12 non-functional central nervous system 
(CNS) PET tracers was compiled. Data was identified in literature for Kd and
Bmax, whereas a brain slice methodology was used to determine values for
Vu,brain. A mathematical prediction model for the target-bound fraction of tracer
in the brain (ftb) was derived and evaluated with respect to how well it predicts
tracer functionality compared to traditional PET tracer candidate selection
criteria.
RESULTS: The methodology correctly classified 31/35 functioning and 12/12
non-functioning tracers. This predictivity was superior to traditional
classification criteria or combinations thereof.
CONCLUSIONS: The presented CNS PET tracer identification approach is rapid and
accurate and is expected to facilitate the development of novel PET tracers for
the molecular imaging community.

PMID: 26116114  [PubMed]


19. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0049-z. Epub 2014 Sep 16.

The effect of volume of interest definition on quantification of lymph node
immune response to a monkeypox virus infection assessed by (18)F-FDG-PET.

Chefer S(1), Reba RC, Leyson CZ, Seidel J, Johnson RF, Blaney JE, Jahrling PB,
Dyall J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Integrated Research Facility, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 8200
Research Plaza, Frederick, MD, 21702, USA, schefer@mail.nih.gov.

BACKGROUND: 2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-D-glucose-positron emission tomography
((18)F-FDG-PET) is applied in the clinic for infection assessment and is under
consideration for investigating the inflammatory/immune response in lymphoid
tissue in animal models of viral infection. Assessing changes in (18)F-FDG uptake
of lymph nodes (LNs), primary lymphoid tissues targeted during viral infection,
requires suitable methods for image analysis. Similar to tumor evaluation,
reliable quantitation of the LN function via multiple (18)F-FDG-PET sessions will
depend how the volume of interest is defined. Volume of interest definition has a
direct effect on statistical outcome. The current study objective is to compare
for the first time agreement between conventional and modified VOI metrics to
determine which method(s) provide(s) reproducible standardized uptake values
(SUVs) for (18)F-FDG uptake in the LN of rhesus macaques.
METHODS: Multiple (18)F-FDG-PET images of LNs in macaques were acquired prior to 
and after monkeypox virus intravenous inoculation. We compared five image
analysis approaches, SUVmax, SUVmean, SUVthreshold, modified SUVthreshold, and
SUVfixed volume, to investigate the impact of these approaches on quantification 
of the changes in LN metabolic activity denoting the immune response during viral
infection progression.
RESULTS: The lowest data repeatability was observed with SUVmax. The best
correspondence was between SUVfixed volume and conventional and modified
SUVthreshold. A statistically significant difference in the LN (18)F-FDG uptake
between surviving and moribund animals was shown using modified SUVthreshold and 
SUVfixed volume (adjusted p = 0.0037 and p = 0.0001, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Quantification of the LN (18)F-FDG uptake is highly sensitive to the
method applied for PET image analysis. SUVfixed volume and modified SUVthreshold 
demonstrate better reproducibility for SUV estimates than SUVmax, SUVmean, and
SUVthreshold. SUVfixed volume and modified SUVthreshold are capable of
distinguishing between groups with different disease outcomes. Therefore, these
methods are the preferred approaches for evaluating the LN function during viral 
infection by (18)F-FDG-PET. Validation of multiple approaches is necessary to
choose a suitable method to monitor changes in LN metabolic activity during
progression of viral infection.

PMID: 26116113  [PubMed]


20. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0048-0. Epub 2014 Sep 16.

Heterogeneity of microsphere distribution in resected liver and tumour tissue
following selective intrahepatic radiotherapy.

Högberg J(1), Rizell M, Hultborn R, Svensson J, Henrikson O, Mölne J, Gjertsson
P, Bernhardt P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of
Gothenburg, SE-41346, Gothenburg, Sweden, jonas.hogberg@radfys.gu.se.

BACKGROUND: Selective arterial radioembolisation of liver tumours has increased, 
because of encouraging efficacy reports; however, therapeutic parameters used in 
external beam therapy are not applicable for understanding and predicting
potential toxicity and efficacy, necessitating further studies of the physical
and biological characteristics of radioembolisation. The aim was to characterise 
heterogeneity in the distribution of microspheres on a therapeutically relevant
geometric scale considering the range of yttrium-90 ((90)Y) β-particles.
METHODS: Two patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, marginally
resectable, were treated by selective arterial embolisation with (90)Y resin
microspheres (SIRTEX®), followed 9 days post-infusion by resection, including
macroscopic tumour tissue and surrounding normal liver parenchyma.
Formalin-fixed, sectioned resected tissues were exposed to autoradiographic
films, or tissue biopsies of various dimensions were punched out for activity
measurements and microscopy.
RESULTS: Autoradiography and activity measurements revealed a higher activity in 
tumour tissue compared to normal liver parenchyma. Heterogeneity in activity
distribution was evident in both normal liver and tumour tissue. Activity
measurements were analysed in relation to the sample mass (5 to 422 mg), and
heterogeneities were detected by statistical means; the larger the tissue
biopsies, the smaller was the coefficient of variation. The skewness of the
activity distributions increased with decreasing biopsy mass.
CONCLUSIONS: The tissue activity distributions in normal tissue were
heterogeneous on a relevant geometric scale considering the range of the ionising
electrons. Given the similar and repetitive structure of the liver parenchyma,
this finding could partly explain the tolerance of a relatively high mean
absorbed dose to the liver parenchyma from β-particles.

PMID: 26116112  [PubMed]


21. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):47. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0047-1. Epub 2014 Aug 30.

Therapeutic application of CCK2R-targeting PP-F11: influence of particle range,
activity and peptide amount.

Konijnenberg MW(1), Breeman WA, de Blois E, Chan HS, Boerman OC, Laverman P,
Kolenc-Peitl P, Melis M, de Jong M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC, PO Box 2040, 3000, CA, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands, m.konijnenberg@erasmusmc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Targeted radionuclide therapy with high-energy beta-emitters is
generally considered suboptimal to cure small tumours (<300 mg). Tumour targeting
of the CCK2 receptor-binding minigastrin analogue PP-F11 was determined in a
tumour-bearing mouse model at increasing peptide amounts. The optimal therapy was
analysed for PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y, (177)Lu or (213)Bi, accounting for the
radionuclide specific activities (SAs), the tumour absorbed doses and tumour
(radio) biology.
METHODS: Tumour uptake of (111)In-PP-F11 was determined in nude mice bearing CCK2
receptor-transfected A431 xenografts at 1 and 4 h post-injection for escalating
peptide masses of 0.03 to 15 nmol/mouse. The absorbed tumour dose was estimated, 
assuming comparable biodistributions of the (90)Y, (177)Lu or (213)Bi
radiolabelled peptides. The linear-quadratic (LQ) model was used to calculate the
tumour control probabilities (TCP) as a function of tumour mass and growth.
RESULTS: Practically achievable maximum SAs for PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y and
(177)Lu were 400 MBq (90)Y/nmol and 120 MBq(177)Lu/nmol. Both the large elution
volume from the 220 MBq (225)Ac generator used and reaction kinetics diminished
the maximum achieved (213)Bi SA in practice: 40 MBq (213)Bi/nmol. Tumour uptakes 
decreased rapidly with increasing peptide amounts, following a logarithmic curve 
with ED50 = 0.5 nmol. At 0.03 nmol peptide, the (300 mg) tumour dose was 9 Gy
after 12 MBq (90)Y-PP-F11, and for (111)In and (177)Lu, this was 1 Gy. A curative
dose of 60 Gy could be achieved with a single administration of 111 MBq (90)Y
labelled to 0.28 nmol PP-F11 or with 4 × 17 MBq (213)Bi (0.41 nmol) when its
α-radiation relative biological effectiveness (RBE) was assumed to be 3.4.
Repeated dosing is preferable to avoid complete tumour receptor saturation.
Tumours larger than 200 mg are curable with (90)Y-PP-F11; the other radionuclides
perform better in smaller tumours. Furthermore, (177)Lu is not optimal for curing
fast-growing tumours.
CONCLUSIONS: Receptor saturation, specific radiopharmaceutical activities and
absorbed doses in the tumour together favour therapy with the CCK2
receptor-binding peptide PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y, despite its longer
β-particle range in tissue, certainly for tumours larger than 300 mg. The
predicted TCPs are of theoretical nature and need to be compared with the outcome
of targeted radionuclide experiments.

PMID: 26116111  [PubMed]


22. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):44. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0044-4. Epub 2014 Sep 9.

Multiparametric magnetic resonance in the assessment of the gender differences in
a high-grade glioma rat model.

Pérez-Carro R(1), Cauli O, López-Larrubia P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance in the Study of the Central Nervous System,
Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas 'Alberto Sols', CSIC-UAM, Arturo Duperier
4, 28029, Madrid, Spain, rperezcarro@iib.uam.es.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma, the most frequent and aggressive of all astrocytomas,
presents a clear predominance in male humans, but the assessment of sexual
differences in its tumourigenesis and growth has received little attention so
far. In this study, we aim to identify gender-dependent surrogate markers in an
animal model of this cancer by means of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and
biochemical and behavioural studies.
METHODS: A high-grade glioma model developed in male and female rats was used.
Multiparametric magnetic resonance images and localized spectra were acquired.
The MR parameters linked to tumoural features were quantified. Motor and
metabolic activity was also assessed. Postmortem analyses were carried out to
measure indicators of malignancy, tumoural metabolism and viability of the
blood-brain barrier (BBB).
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences dependent on the animal sex were
found in the study of pathological indicators like oedema, inflammation,
cellularity and microvasculature. Results suggest higher cell proliferative rate,
inflammation and vasogenic oedema and or necrosis in glioma-bearing male rats.
Haemodynamic parameters measured indicated a major disruption of the BBB,
postmortem confirmed, in this sex. Metabolomic and energetic metabolism activity 
data are in agreement with a major malignancy and aggressiveness of this cancer
model on males.
CONCLUSIONS: Gender differences should be taken into account in preclinical
studies of glioblastoma models, in the characterization of the tumoural behaviour
and consequently in the development and validation of new therapeutic approaches.
MR imaging and spectroscopy allow to non-invasively monitor this sexual
dimorphism in the diagnosis and prognosis of brain cancer.

PMID: 26116110  [PubMed]


23. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0038-2. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Feasibility and advantage of adding (131)I-MIBG to (90)Y-DOTATOC for treatment of
patients with advanced stage neuroendocrine tumors.

Bushnell DL(1), Madsen MT, O'cdorisio T, Menda Y, Muzahir S, Ryan R, O'dorisio
MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Nuclear Medicine, University of Iowa
Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA, 52242, USA, David-bushnell@uiowa.edu.

BACKGROUND: Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) is an effective form of 
treatment for patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). However,
delivering sufficient radiation dose to the tumor to result in a high percentage 
of long-term tumor remissions remains challenging because of the limits imposed
on administered activity levels by radiation damage to normal tissues. The goal
of this study was to evaluate the dosimetric advantages of adding (131)I
meta-iodobenzylguanidine ((131)I-MIBG) to (90)Y DOTA Phe1-Tyr3-octreotide
((90)Y-DOTATOC) in patients with advanced stage midgut NETs.
METHODS: Ten patients were imaged simultaneously with (131)I-MIBG and
(111)In-pentetreotide (as a surrogate for (90)Y-DOTATOC) on days 1, 2, and 3
post-administration. Blood samples were obtained at the same time points. Using
dosimetry measures from this data and our previously published methodology for
calculating optimal combined administered activity levels for therapy, we
determined the amount of (131)I-MIBG that could be added to (90)Y-DOTATOC without
exceeding normal organ dose limits (marrow and kidneys) along with the expected
increase in associated tumor dose, if any.
RESULTS: We found that a median value of 34.6 GBq of (131)I-MIBG could be safely 
added to (90)Y-DOTATOC (delivered over multiple cycles) by reducing the maximum
total deliverable (90)Y-DOTATOC by a median value of 24.5%. Taking this treatment
approach, we found that there would be a median increase in deliverable tumor
dose of 4,046 cGy in six of the ten subjects. Of note, there were a small number 
of metastases that were positive for only one or the other of these
radiopharmaceuticals within the same subject.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that approximately half of the patients with midgut NETs
that are eligible for PRRT could reasonably be expected to benefit from the
addition of (131)I-MIBG to (90)Y-DOTATOC.

PMID: 26116109  [PubMed]


24. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0034-6. Epub 2014 Sep 9.

Evaluation of efficacy of a new MEK inhibitor, RO4987655, in human tumor
xenografts by [(18)F] FDG-PET imaging combined with proteomic approaches.

Tegnebratt T(1), Ruge E, Bader S, Ishii N, Aida S, Yoshimura Y, Ooi CH, Lu L,
Mitsios N, Meresse V, Mulder J, Pawlak M, Venturi M, Tessier J, Stone-Elander S.

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institutet and Department of Neuroradiology, R3:00, MicroPET and
Clinical Neurosciences, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 17176, Sweden,
tetyana.tegnebratt@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK, also known as
MAPK2, MAPKK), a key molecule of the Ras/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) 
pathway, has shown promising effects on B-raf-mutated and some RAS (rat
sarcoma)-activated tumors in clinical trials. The objective of this study is to
examine the efficacy of a novel allosteric MEK inhibitor RO4987655 in
K-ras-mutated human tumor xenograft models using [(18)F] FDG-PET imaging and
proteomics technology.
METHODS: [(18)F] FDG uptake was studied in human lung carcinoma xenografts from
day 0 to day 9 of RO4987655 therapy using microPET Focus 120 (CTI Concorde
Microsystems, Knoxville, TN, USA). The expression levels of GLUT1 and hexokinase 
1 were examined using semi-quantitative fluorescent immunohistochemistry (fIHC). 
The in vivo effects of RO4987655 on MAPK/PI3K pathway components were assessed by
reverse phase protein arrays (RPPA).
RESULTS: We have observed modest metabolic decreases in tumor [(18)F] FDG uptake 
after MEK inhibition by RO4987655 as early as 2 h post-treatment. The greatest
[(18)F] FDG decreases were found on day 1, followed by a rebound in [(18)F] FDG
uptake on day 3 in parallel with decreasing tumor volumes. Molecular analysis of 
the tumors by fIHC did not reveal statistically significant correlations of GLUT1
and hexokinase 1 expressions with the [(18)F] FDG changes. RPPA signaling
response profiling revealed not only down-regulation of pERK1/2, pMKK4, and pmTOR
on day 1 after RO4987655 treatment but also significant up-regulation of pMEK1/2,
pMEK2, pC-RAF, and pAKT on day 3. The up-regulation of these markers is
interpreted to be indicative of a reactivation of the MAPK and activation of the 
compensatory PI3K pathway, which can also explain the rebound in [(18)F] FDG
uptake following MEK inhibition with RO4987655 in the K-ras-mutated human tumor
xenografts.
CONCLUSIONS: We have performed the first preclinical evaluation of a new MEK
inhibitor, RO4987655, using a combination of [(18)F] FDG-PET imaging and
molecular proteomics. These results provide support for using preclinical [(18)F]
FDG-PET imaging in early, non-invasive monitoring of the effects of MEK and
perhaps other Ras/MAPK signaling pathway inhibitors, which should facilitate a
wider implementation of clinical [(18)F] FDG-PET to optimize their clinical use.

PMID: 26116108  [PubMed]


25. EJNMMI Res. 2014 Dec;4(1):27. doi: 10.1186/s13550-014-0027-5. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Detecting functional changes with [(18)F]FAZA in a renal cell carcinoma mouse
model following sunitinib therapy.

Chapman DW(1), Jans HS, Ma I, Mercer JR, Wiebe LI, Wuest M, Moore RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology Cross Cancer Institute, University of Alberta, 11560
University Ave, Edmonton, Alberta Canada, T6G 1Z2, Canada, dchapman@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: The multitargeting tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sunitinib is
currently the first-line drug therapy for metastasizing renal cell carcinoma
(RCC). TKIs have profound effects on tumor angiogenesis, leading to modifications
of the tumor microenvironment. The goal of this study was to determine whether
these treatment-induced changes can be detected with [(18)F]FAZA.
METHODS: The present study utilized positron emission tomography (PET) to analyze
tumor oxygenation status during and after sunitinib therapy in the murine Caki-1 
RCC tumor model. Dynamic and static scans were performed, as well as ex vivo
biodistributions at 3 h post injection (p.i.). Immunohistochemical analysis of
tumor tissue was carried out for the quantification of pimonidazole binding and
the hypoxia-associated factors CD-31, Ki-67, and Von Willebrand factor (VWF). In 
addition, in vitro cellular uptake studies were done to analyze the direct
effects of sunitinib on the Caki-1 cells.
RESULTS: During therapy with sunitinib (40 mg/kg/day), uptake of [(18)F]FAZA into
Caki-1 mice decreased by 46 ± 5% (n = 4; 5 days) at 3 h post injection (p.i.)
during the first study and 22 ± 5% (n = 8; 9 days) during the long-term study,
indicating a decrease in the tumor's hypoxia level. However, when drug therapy
was stopped, this effect was reversed completely, and the tumor [(18)F]FAZA
uptake increased to 126 ± 6% (n = 6) of the control tumor uptake, indicative of
an even higher level of tumor hypoxia compared to the therapy starting point.
Sunitinib had no direct effect on [(18)F]FAZA uptake into Caki-1 cells in vitro.
CONCLUSION: [(18)F]FAZA PET could be used to monitor drug response during
sunitinib therapy in RCC and may guide combination therapies based on the tumor's
hypoxia status.

PMID: 26116107  [PubMed]


26. J Int AIDS Soc. 2015 Jun 25;18(1):20035. doi: 10.7448/IAS.18.1.20035.

Subtype-independent near full-length HIV-1 genome sequencing and assembly to be
used in large molecular epidemiological studies and clinical management.

Grossmann S(1,)(2), Nowak P(3), Neogi U(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Microbiology, Department of Laboratory Medicine,
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. (2)Institute for Pharmacy and Molecular
Biotechnology, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany. (3)Department of
Medicine Huddinge, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital,
Stockholm, Sweden. (4)Division of Clinical Microbiology, Department of Laboratory
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; ujjwal.neogi@ki.se.

INTRODUCTION: HIV-1 near full-length genome (HIV-NFLG) sequencing from plasma is 
an attractive multidimensional tool to apply in large-scale population-based
molecular epidemiological studies. It also enables genotypic resistance testing
(GRT) for all drug target sites allowing effective intervention strategies for
control and prevention in high-risk population groups. Thus, the main objective
of this study was to develop a simplified subtype-independent, cost- and
labour-efficient HIV-NFLG protocol that can be used in clinical management as
well as in molecular epidemiological studies.
METHODS: Plasma samples (n=30) were obtained from HIV-1B (n=10), HIV-1C (n=10),
CRF01_AE (n=5) and CRF01_AG (n=5) infected individuals with minimum viral load
>1120 copies/ml. The amplification was performed with two large amplicons of 5.5 
kb and 3.7 kb, sequenced with 17 primers to obtain HIV-NFLG. GRT was validated
against ViroSeq™ HIV-1 Genotyping System.
RESULTS: After excluding four plasma samples with low-quality RNA, a total of 26 
samples were attempted. Among them, NFLG was obtained from 24 (92%) samples with 
the lowest viral load being 3000 copies/ml. High (>99%) concordance was observed 
between HIV-NFLG and ViroSeq™ when determining the drug resistance mutations
(DRMs). The N384I connection mutation was additionally detected by NFLG in two
samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Our high efficiency subtype-independent HIV-NFLG is a simple and
promising approach to be used in large-scale molecular epidemiological studies.
It will facilitate the understanding of the HIV-1 pandemic population dynamics
and outline effective intervention strategies. Furthermore, it can potentially be
applicable in clinical management of drug resistance by evaluating DRMs against
all available antiretrovirals in a single assay.

PMID: 26115688  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


27. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131367. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131367.

Water Channels Aquaporin 4 and -1 Expression in Subependymoma Depends on the
Localization of the Tumors.

Noell S(1), Fallier-Becker P(2), Mack AF(3), Hoffmeister M(2), Beschorner R(2),
Ritz R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Pathology and Neuropathology, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen,
Germany. (3)Institute of Clinical Anatomy and Cell Analysis, University of
Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany. (4)Department of Neurosurgery, University of
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: We analyzed aquaporin 4 and -1 expression in subependymomas, benign
and slow growing brain tumors WHO grade I. Ten subependymoma cases were
investigated, five of the fossa inferior and five of the fossa superior.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using immunohistochemistry, we observed different aquaporin 
expression patterns depending on localization: aquaporin 4 and -1 were detected
in infratentorial subependymomas in the entire tumor tissue. In contrast,
supratentorial subependymomas revealed aquaporin 4 and -1 expression only in
border areas of the tumor. PCR analyses however showed no difference in aquaporin
4 expression between all subependymomas independent of localization but at higher
levels than in normal brain. In contrast, aquaporin 1 RNA levels were found to be
higher only in infratentorial samples compared to supratentorial and normal brain
samples. The reason for the different distribution pattern of aquaporin 4 in
subependymomas still remains unclear. On the cellular level, aquaporin 4 was
redistributed on the surface of the tumor cells, and in freeze fracture replicas 
no orthogonal arrays of particles were found. This was similar to our previous
findings in malignant glioblastomas. From these studies, we know that
extracellular matrix molecules within the tumor like agrin and its receptor
alpha-dystroglycan are involved in forming orthogonal arrays of particles. In
subependymomas neither agrin nor alpha-dystroglycan were detected around blood
vessels.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, we show in this study that in the benign
subependymomas aquaporins 1 and 4 are dramatically redistributed and upregulated.
We speculate that extracellular environments of infra- and supratentorial
subependymomas are different and lead to different distribution patterns of
aquaporin 4 and -1.

PMID: 26115524  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


28. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0123701. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123701.

Access and Attitudes to HPV Vaccination amongst Hard-To-Reach Populations in
Kenya.

Watson-Jones D(1), Mugo N(2), Lees S(3), Mathai M(4), Vusha S(4), Ndirangu G(5), 
Ross DA(3).

Author information: 
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, United
Kingdom; Mwanza Intervention Trials Unit, National Institute for Medical
Research, Mwanza, Tanzania. (2)Kenya Medical Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya. 
(3)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, United
Kingdom. (4)University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya. (5)Division of Reproductive
Health, Ministry of Health, Nairobi, Kenya.

BACKGROUND: Sub-Saharan Africa bears the greatest burden of cervical cancer.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination programmes to prevent the disease will
need to reach vulnerable girls who may not be able access health and screening
services in the future. We conducted formative research on facilitators and
barriers to HPV vaccination and potential acceptability of a future HPV
vaccination programme amongst girls living in hard-to-reach populations in Kenya.
METHODS: Stakeholder interviews with Ministry of Health staff explored barriers
to and support for the uptake of HPV vaccination. A situation assessment was
conducted to assess community services in Maasai nomadic pastoralist communities 
in Kajiado County and in Korogocho informal settlement in Nairobi city, followed 
by focus group discussions (n=14) and semi-structured interviews (n=28) with
health workers, parents, youth, and community and religious leaders. These
covered marriage, knowledge of cervical cancer and HPV, factors that might
inhibit or support HPV vaccine uptake and intention to accept HPV vaccine if a
programme was in place.
RESULTS: Reported challenges to an HPV vaccination programme included school
absenteeism and drop-out, early age of sex and marriage, lack of parental
support, population mobility and distance from services. Despite little prior
knowledge of cervical cancer and HPV, communities were interested in receiving
HPV vaccination. Adequate social mobilisation and school-based vaccination,
supplemented by out-reach activities, were considered important facilitating
factors to achieve high coverage. There was some support for a campaign approach 
to vaccine delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the high level of support for a vaccine against cervical
cancer and the experience of reaching pastoralist and slum-dwellers for other
immunizations, implementing an HPV vaccine programme should be feasible in such
hard-to-reach communities. This may require additional delivery strategies in
addition to the standard school-based delivery, with vaccine offered at multiple 
venues, potentially through a campaign approach.

PMID: 26115523  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


29. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129923. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129923.

Prospective Randomized Trial Comparing Hepatic Venous Outflow and Renal Function 
after Conventional versus Piggyback Liver Transplantation.

Brescia MD(1), Massarollo PC(1), Imakuma ES(1), Mies S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Anatomia Médico-Cirúrgica (LIM-02), Departamento de Cirurgia,
Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: This randomized prospective clinical trial compared the hepatic
venous outflow drainage and renal function after conventional with venovenous
bypass (n = 15) or piggyback (n = 17) liver transplantation.
METHODS: Free hepatic vein pressure (FHVP) and central venous pressure (CVP)
measurements were performed after graft reperfusion. Postoperative serum
creatinine (Cr) was measured daily on the first week and on the 14th, 21st and
28th postoperative days (PO). The prevalence of acute renal failure (ARF) up to
the 28th PO was analyzed by RIFLE-AKIN criteria. A Generalized Estimating
Equation (GEE) approach was used for comparison of longitudinal measurements of
renal function.
RESULTS: FHVP-CVP gradient > 3 mm Hg was observed in 26.7% (4/15) of the patients
in the conventional group and in 17.6% (3/17) in the piggyback group (p = 0.68). 
Median FHVP-CVP gradient was 2 mm Hg (0-8 mmHg) vs. 3 mm Hg (0-7 mm Hg) in
conventional and piggyback groups, respectively (p = 0.73). There is no
statistically significant difference between the conventional (1/15) and the
piggyback (2/17) groups regarding massive ascites development (p = 1.00). GEE
estimated marginal mean for Cr was significantly higher in conventional than in
piggyback group (2.14 ± 0.26 vs. 1.47 ± 0.15 mg/dL; p = 0.02). The conventional
method presented a higher prevalence of severe ARF during the first 28 PO days
(OR = 3.207; 95% CI, 1.010 to 10.179; p = 0.048).
CONCLUSION: Patients submitted to liver transplantation using conventional or
piggyback methods present similar results regarding venous outflow drainage of
the graft. Conventional with venovenous bypass technique significantly increases 
the harm of postoperative renal dysfunction.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01707810.

PMID: 26115520  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


30. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131171. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131171.

Increased Maternal and Cord Blood Betatrophin in Gestational Diabetes.

Wawrusiewicz-Kurylonek N(1), Telejko B(1), Kuzmicki M(2), Sobota A(2), Lipinska
D(1), Pliszka J(1), Raczkowska B(1), Kuc P(3), Urban R(3), Szamatowicz J(2),
Kretowski A(1), Laudanski P(3), Gorska M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetology and Internal Medicine, Medical
University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland. (2)Department of Gynecology, Medical 
University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland. (3)Department of Perinatology,
Medical University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland.

AIM: The aim of the study was to compare maternal and cord blood levels of
betatrophin - a new peptide potentially controlling beta cell growth - as well as
in its mRNA expression in subcutaneous adipose tissue, visceral adipose tissue
and placental tissue obtained from pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance
(NGT) and gestational diabetes (GDM).
METHODS: Serum betatrophin and irisin concentrations were measured by ELISA in 93
patients with GDM and 97 women with NGT between 24 and 28 week of gestation.
Additionally, maternal and cord blood betatrophin and irisin, as well as their
genes (C19orf80 and Fndc5) expression were evaluated in 20 patients with GDM and 
20 women with NGT at term.
RESULTS: In both groups, serum betatrophin concentrations were significantly
higher in the patients with GDM than in the controls (1.91 [1.40-2.60] ng/ml vs
1.63 [1.21-2.22] ng/ml, p=0.03 and 3.45 [2.77-6.53] ng/ml vs 2.78 [2.16-3.65]
ng/ml, p=0.03, respectively). Cord blood betatrophin levels were also higher in
the GDM than in the NGT group (20.43 [12.97-28.80] ng/ml vs 15.06 [10.11-21.36]
ng/ml, p=0.03). In both groups betatrophin concentrations in arterial cord blood 
were significantly higher than in maternal serum (p=0.0001). Serum irisin levels 
were significantly lower in the patients with GDM (1679 [1308-2171] ng/ml) than
in the healthy women between 24 and 28 week of pregnancy (1880 [1519-2312] ng/ml,
p=0.03). Both C19orf80 and Fndc5 mRNA expression in fat and placental tissue did 
not differ significantly between the groups studied.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that an increase in maternal and cord blood
betatrophin might be a compensatory mechanism for enhanced insulin demand in GDM.

PMID: 26115519  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


31. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130345. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130345.

The Prognostic Role of Para-Aortic Lymph Nodes in Patients with Colorectal
Cancer: Is It Regional or Distant Disease?

Lu HJ(1), Lin JK(2), Chen WS(2), Jiang JK(2), Yang SH(2), Lan YT(2), Lin CC(2),
Liu CA(3), Teng HW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Show Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua,
Taiwan; School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan;
Program in Molecular Medicine, School of Life Sciences, National Yang-Ming
University, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Division of Colon and Rectum Surgery, Department
of Surgery, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine,
National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan. (3)Department of Radiology, Taipei
Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming
University, Taipei, Taiwan. (4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Clinical
Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine,
National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: Visible para-aortic lymph nodes of ≥2 mm in size are common
metastatic patterns of colorectal cancer (CRC) seen on imaging. Their prognostic 
value, however, remains inconclusive. We aimed to assess the prognostic role of
visible para-aortic lymph nodes (PALNs).
METHODS: Patients with confirmed pathologic diagnosis of CRC were enrolled.
Correlations among clinicopathologic variables were analyzed using the χ2 test.
The Cox proportional hazards model was applied for univariate and multivariate
analyses. Survival was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test.
A prognostic model for visible PALNs in CRC patients was established.
RESULTS: In total, 4527 newly diagnosed CRC patients were enrolled. Patients with
visible PALNs had inferior overall survival compared to those without visible
PALNs (5-year overall survival, 67% vs. 76%, P = 0.015). Lymphovascular invasion 
(LVI) (hazard ratio = 1.865, P = 0.015); nodal disease (pN+) status (hazard ratio
= 2.099, P = 0.006); elevated preoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)
levels (hazard ratio = 2.263, P < 0.001); and visible PALNs ≥10 mm (hazard ratio 
= 1.638, P = 0.031) were independent prognostic factors for patients with visible
PALNs. If each prognostic factor scored one point, 5-year overall survival of
lower- (prognostic score 0-1), intermediate- (prognostic score 2), and high-
(prognostic score 3-4) risk groups were, 78%. 54%, and 25% respectively (P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic model, which included LVI, pN+ status, preoperative
serum CEA level, and the size of visible PALNs, could effectively distinguish the
outcome of patients with visible PALNs.

PMID: 26115511  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


32. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129899. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129899.

Assessment of Myocardial Fibrosis in Mice Using a T2*-Weighted 3D Radial Magnetic
Resonance Imaging Sequence.

van Nierop BJ(1), Bax NA(2), Nelissen JL(1), Arslan F(3), Motaal AG(1), de Graaf 
L(1), Zwanenburg JJ(4), Luijten PR(4), Nicolay K(1), Strijkers GJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical NMR, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eindhoven University of 
Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands. (2)Soft Tissue Biomechanics and
Engineering, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eindhoven University of
Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Cardiology, University
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; Laboratory of Experimental
Cardiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht,
Netherlands. (5)Biomedical NMR, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eindhoven
University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands; Biomedical Engineering and 
Physics, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Myocardial fibrosis is a common hallmark of many diseases of the
heart. Late gadolinium enhanced MRI is a powerful tool to image replacement
fibrosis after myocardial infarction (MI). Interstitial fibrosis can be assessed 
indirectly from an extracellular volume fraction measurement using
contrast-enhanced T1 mapping. Detection of short T2* species resulting from
fibrotic tissue may provide an attractive non-contrast-enhanced alternative to
directly visualize the presence of both replacement and interstitial fibrosis.
OBJECTIVE: To goal of this paper was to explore the use of a T2*-weighted radial 
sequence for the visualization of fibrosis in mouse heart.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were studied with MI (n = 20, replacement fibrosis),
transverse aortic constriction (TAC) (n = 18, diffuse fibrosis), and as control
(n = 10). 3D center-out radial T2*-weighted images with varying TE were acquired 
in vivo and ex vivo (TE = 21 μs-4 ms). Ex vivo T2*-weighted signal decay with TE 
was analyzed using a 3-component model. Subtraction of short- and long-TE images 
was used to highlight fibrotic tissue with short T2*. The presence of fibrosis
was validated using histology and correlated to MRI findings.
RESULTS: Detailed ex vivo T2*-weighted signal analysis revealed a fast (T2*fast),
slow (T2*slow) and lipid (T2*lipid) pool. T2*fast remained essentially constant. 
Infarct T2*slow decreased significantly, while a moderate decrease was observed
in remote tissue in post-MI hearts and in TAC hearts. T2*slow correlated with the
presence of diffuse fibrosis in TAC hearts (r = 0.82, P = 0.01). Ex vivo and in
vivo subtraction images depicted a positive contrast in the infarct co-localizing
with the scar. Infarct volumes from histology and subtraction images linearly
correlated (r = 0.94, P<0.001). Region-of-interest analysis in the in vivo
post-MI and TAC hearts revealed significant T2* shortening due to fibrosis, in
agreement with the ex vivo results. However, in vivo contrast on subtraction
images was rather poor, hampering a straightforward visual assessment of the
spatial distribution of the fibrotic tissue.

PMID: 26115443  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


33. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130338. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130338.

Planning the International Competition Schedules for the Health of Elite
Athletes: A 21-Year Retrospective Study Evaluating the Effectiveness and Economic
Impact in an Olympic Sport.

Malagoni AM(1), Lamberti N(2), Carrabre JE(1), Litmanen H(1), Jeannier P(1),
Zhukovskaja L(1), Dal Follo D(1), Zambon C(2), Resch N(1), Manfredini F(3).

Author information: 
(1)International Biathlon Union, Salzburg, Austria. (2)Department of Biomedical
Sciences and Surgical Specialties, Section of Sport Sciences, University of
Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (3)International Biathlon Union, Salzburg, Austria;
Department of Biomedical Sciences and Surgical Specialties, Section of Sport
Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The increased number of trips and competitions scheduled in the
international agonistic calendars meets commercial demands while acting as a
source of stress for the athletes. A model, developed in biathlons to monitor the
so-called competition load, revealed an upward trend over time. The aim of this
study was to evaluate, in a 21-year period, the effects of the International
Biathlon Union's rescheduling of the competitive calendars to control the
competition load, as well as its stability over time and the economic impact of
this intervention.
METHODS: For each season competition, the load factors from the international
agonistic calendar (number of venues/events, competition days/distance) were
considered, and the athletes' daily and maximal stress scores were calculated.
The calendar rescheduling, which started in 2001, involved the length of
competitions, number of resting days and frequency of travels. Data from the
period pre (1994-2000) and post (2001-2007) the intervention, as well as
follow-up (2008-2015), were compared and analyzed in relation to the federation's
budget.
RESULTS: The competition load and athletes' daily stress score progressively
increased pre, plateaued post and remained stable in follow-up. Their annual
variations within the final two periods were significantly lower than in the pre 
period, in spite of the higher average values. The maximal stress score decreased
over time. The direct correlation between most of the competition load factors
with the economic budget present in pre was lost in post and follow-up.
Similarly, the athletes' daily stress score had a stable trend in post and
follow-up, while budget continued to increase.
CONCLUSIONS: The management of an athlete's potential source of stress by an
international federation stabilized the competition load over time, but it did
not affect the budget. Furthermore, it uncoupled the relationship between the
athlete's effort and federation income.

PMID: 26115423  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


34. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129552. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129552.

Cytokine Kinetics in the First Week of Tuberculosis Therapy as a Tool to Confirm 
a Clinical Diagnosis and Guide Therapy.

den Hertog AL(1), Montero-Martín M(2), Saunders RL(2), Blakiston M(2), Menting
S(1), Sherchand JB(3), Lawson L(4), Oladimeji O(4), Abdurrahman ST(5), Cuevas
LE(2), Anthony RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Tropical Institute (KIT), KIT Biomedical Research, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (2)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(3)Tribhuvan University Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, Nepal. (4)Zankli
Medical Centre, Abuja, Nigeria. (5)Abuja Federal Capital Territory Tuberculosis
Control Programme, Abuja, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: Many patients treated for tuberculosis (TB) in low and middle income 
countries are treated based on clinical suspicion without bacteriological
confirmation. This is often due to lack of rapid simple accurate diagnostics and 
low healthcare provider confidence in the predictive value of current tests. We
previously reported in an animal TB model that levels of host markers rapidly
change in response to treatment initiation.
METHODS: We assessed the potential of host biomarker kinetics of TB patients
during the first two weeks of therapy to identify patients responding to
treatment. Adult patients clinically diagnosed with and treated for TB, 29 in
Nigeria and 24 in Nepal, were analyzed.
RESULTS: Changes in concentrations of non-specific host biomarkers, particularly 
IP-10, in response to the first week of anti-TB therapy were strongly associated 
with bacteriological confirmation of TB. A decrease in IP-10 level of >300pg/ml
between 0 and 7 days of treatment identified 75% of both smear-positive and
smear-negative culture positive patients and correctly excluded TB in all nine
culture negative patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Monitoring of early IP-10 responses to treatment could form the
basis of a simplified assay and could help identify patients who were erroneously
clinically diagnosed with TB or those infected with drug resistant strains on
inappropriate treatment. We believe this approach may be particularly appropriate
for difficult to diagnose patients, e.g. smear-negative HIV-positive, or those
with extra-pulmonary TB, often treated without bacterial confirmation.

PMID: 26115421  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


35. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131872. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131872.

Surgery for Glioblastoma: Impact of the Combined Use of 5-Aminolevulinic Acid and
Intraoperative MRI on Extent of Resection and Survival.

Coburger J(1), Hagel V(1), Wirtz CR(1), König R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Campus Günzburg, University of Ulm, Ludwig
Heilmeyerstr. 2, Günzburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: There is rising evidence that in glioblastoma(GBM) surgery an
increase of extent of resection(EoR) leads to an increase of patient's survival. 
Based on histopathological assessments tumor depiction of Gd-DTPA enhancement and
5-aminolevulinic-acid-fluorescence(5-ALA) might be synergistic for intraoperative
resection control.
OBJECTIVE: To assess impact of additional use of 5-ALA in intraoperative
MRI(iMRI) assisted surgery of GBMs on extent of resection(EoR), progression free 
survival(PFS) and overall survival(OS).
METHODS: We prospectively enrolled 33 patients with GBMs eligible for
gross-total-resection(GTR) and performed a combined approach using 5-ALA and
iMRI. As a control group, we performed a retrospective matched pair assessment,
based on 144 patients with iMRI-assisted surgery. Matching criteria were, MGMT
promotor methylation, recurrent surgery, eloquent location, tumor size and age.
Only patients with an intended GTR and primary GBMs were included. We calculated 
Kaplan Mayer estimates to compare OS and PFS using the Log-Rank-Test. We used the
T-test to compare volumetric results of EoR and the Chi-Square-Test to compare
new permanent neurological deficits(nPND) and general complications between the
two groups.
RESULTS: Median follow up was 31 months. No significant differences between both 
groups were found concerning the matching criteria. GTR was achieved
significantly more often (p <0.010) using 5-ALA&iMRI (100%) compared to iMRI
alone(82%). Mean EoR was significantly(p<0.004) higher in 5-ALA&iMRI-group(99.7%)
than in iMRI-alone-group(97.4%) Rate of complications did not differ
significantly between groups(21% iMRI-group,27%5-ALA&iMRI-group,p<0.518). nPND
were found in 6% in both groups. Median PFS (6mo resp.;p<0.309) and median
OS(iMRI:17mo;5-ALA&iMRI-group:18mo;p<0.708)) were not significantly different
between both groups.
CONCLUSION: We found a significant increase of EoR when combining 5-ALA&iMRI
compared to use of iMRI alone. Maximizing EoR did not lead to an increase of
complications or neurological deficits if used with neurophysiological monitoring
in eloquent lesions. No final conclusion can be drawn whether a further increase 
of EoR benefits patient's progression free survival and overall survival.

PMID: 26115409  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


36. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130616. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130616.

Patterns of Irregular Burials in Western Europe (1st-5th Century A.D.).

Milella M(1), Mariotti V(2), Belcastro MG(3), Knüsel CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Laboratorio di
Bioarcheologia e Osteologia Forense, Dipartimento di Scienze Biologiche,
Geologiche e Ambientali, Alma Mater Studiorum Università di Bologna, Via Selmi 3,
40126, Bologna, Italy; UMR 7268 ADÉS-Anthropologie Bioculturelle, Droit, Ethique 
et Santé CNRS / Université d'Aix-Marseille / EFS Faculté de Médecine-Secteur
Nord, CS80011, Boulevard Pierre Dramard 13344, Marseille Cedex 15, France.
(3)Laboratorio di Bioarcheologia e Osteologia Forense, Dipartimento di Scienze
Biologiche, Geologiche e Ambientali, Alma Mater Studiorum Università di Bologna, 
Via Selmi 3, 40126, Bologna, Italy; Centro Fermi, Piazza del Viminale 1, 00184
Roma, Italy. (4)UMR5199 PACEA, Université de Bordeaux, Bâtiment B8, Allée
Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, CS 50023, Pessac Cedex 33615, France.

BACKGROUND: Irregular burials (IB-burials showing features that contrast with the
majority of others in their geographic and chronological context) have been the
focus of archaeological study because of their relative rarity and enigmatic
appearance. Interpretations of IB often refer to supposed fear of the dead or to 
social processes taking place in time-specific contexts. However, a comprehensive
and quantitative analysis of IB for various geographical contexts is still
lacking, a fact that hampers any discussion of these burials on a larger scale.
METHODS: Here, we collected a bibliographic dataset of 375 IB from both Britain
and Continental Europe, altogether spanning a time period from the 1st to the 5th
century AD. Each burial has been coded according to ten dichotomous variables,
further analyzed by means of chi-squared tests on absolute frequencies,
non-metric multidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis.
RESULTS: Even acknowledging the limits of this study, and in particular the bias 
represented by the available literature, our results point to interesting
patterns. Geographically, IB show a contrast between Britain and Continental
Europe, possibly related to historical processes specific to these regions.
Different types of IB (especially prone depositions and depositions with the
cephalic extremity displaced) present a series of characteristics and
associations between features that permit a more detailed conceptualization of
these occurrences from a socio-cultural perspective that aids to elucidate their 
funerary meaning.
CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Altogether, the present work stresses the
variability of IB, and the need to contextualize them in a proper archaeological 
and historical context. It contributes to the discussion of IB by providing a
specific geographic and chronological frame of reference that supports a series
of hypotheses about the cultural processes possibly underlying their occurrence.

PMID: 26115408  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


37. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0128620. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128620.

Scoring System for Mortality in Patients Diagnosed with and Treated Surgically
for Differentiated Thyroid Carcinoma with a 20-Year Follow-Up.

López-Bru D(1), Palazón-Bru A(2), Folgado-de la Rosa DM(3), Gil-Guillén VF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, General University Hospital, Elda,
Alicante, Spain. (2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Miguel Hernández University,
San Juan de Alicante, Alicante, Spain; Research Unit, General University
Hospital, Elda, Alicante, Spain. (3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Miguel
Hernández University, San Juan de Alicante, Alicante, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) is associated with an
increased mortality. Few studies have constructed predictive models of all-cause 
mortality with a high discriminating power for patients with this disease that
would enable us to determine which patients are more likely to die.
OBJECTIVE: To construct a predictive model of all-cause mortality at 5, 10, 15
and 20 years for patients diagnosed with and treated surgically for DTC for use
as a mobile application.
DESIGN: We undertook a retrospective cohort study using data from 1984 to 2013.
SETTING: All patients diagnosed with and treated surgically for DTC at a general 
university hospital covering a population of around 200,000 inhabitants in Spain.
PARTICIPANTS: The study involved 201 patients diagnosed with and treated
surgically for DTC (174, papillary; 27, follicular).
EXPOSURES: Age, gender, town, family history, type of surgery, type of cancer,
histological subtype, microcarcinoma, multicentricity, TNM staging system,
diagnostic stage, permanent post-operative complications, local and regional
tumor persistence, distant metastasis, and radioiodine therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: All-cause mortality.
METHODS: A Cox multivariate regression model was constructed to determine which
variables at diagnosis were associated with mortality. Using the model a risk
table was constructed based on the sum of all points to estimate the likelihood
of death. This was then incorporated into a mobile application.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 8.8±6.7 years. All-cause mortality was 12.9% (95%
confidence interval [CI]: 8.3-17.6%). Predictive variables: older age, local
tumor persistence and distant metastasis. The area under the ROC curve was 0.81
(95% CI: 0.72-0.91, p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: This study provides a practical clinical tool giving a simple and
rapid indication (via a mobile application) of which patients with DTC are at
risk of dying in 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. Nonetheless, caution should be exercised 
until validation studies have corroborated our results.

PMID: 26115328  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


38. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130991. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130991.

Reproducibility of Middle Cerebral Artery Stenosis Measurements by DSA:
Comparison of the NASCET and WASID Methods.

Chen L(1), Zhan Q(1), Ma C(1), Liu Q(1), Zhang X(1), Tian X(1), Jiang Y(1), Dong 
Y(1), Chen S(1), Lu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Changhai Hospital of Shanghai, The Second Military
Medical University, No. 168 Changhai Road, Shanghai, 200433, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intra- and inter-observer variability of the North
American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and Warfarin-Aspirin
Symptomatic Intracranial Disease (WASID) criteria for the evaluation of middle
cerebral artery (MCA) stenosis using digital subtraction angiography (DSA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: DSA images of 114 cases with 131 stenotic MCAs were
retrospectively analyzed. Two radiologists and a researcher measured the degree
of MCA stenosis independently using both NASCET and WASID methods. To determine
intra-observer agreement, all the observers reevaluated the degree of MCA
stenosis 4 weeks later. The linear relation and coefficient of variation (CV)
between the measurements made by the two methods were assessed by correlation
coefficient and multi-factor analysis of variance (ANOVA), respectively. Intra-
and inter-observer variability of the two methods was evaluated by intraclass
correlation coefficient (ICC), Spearman's R value, Pearson correlation
coefficient and Bland-Altman plots.
RESULTS: Despite the fact that the degree of MCA stenosis measured by NASCET was 
lower than measured using the WASID method, there was good linear correlation
between the measurements made by the two methods (for the mean measurements of
the 3 observers, NASCET% = 0.891 × WASID% - 1.89%; ICC, Spearman's R value and
Pearson correlation were 0.874, 0.855, and 0.874, respectively). The CVs of both 
intra- and inter-observer measurements of MCA stenosis using WASID were
significantly lower than that using NASCET confirmed by the multi-factor ANOVA
results, which showed only the measurement methods of MCA stenosis had
significant effects on the CVs both in intra- and inter-observer measurements
(both P values < 0.001). Intra-observer measurements showed good or excellent
agreement with respect to WASID and NASCET evaluation (ICC, 0.656 to 0.817 and
0.635 to 0.761, respectively). Good agreement for the WASID evaluation (ICC,
0.592 to 0.628) and for the NASCET evaluation (ICC, 0.529 to 0.568) was observed 
for inter-observer measurements. Bland-Altman plots demonstrated that the WASID
method had better reproducibility and intra-observer agreement than NASCET method
for evaluating MCA stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Both NASCET and WASID methods have an acceptable level of agreement; 
however, the WASID method had better reproducibility for the evaluation of MCA
stenosis, and thus the WASID method may serve as a standard for measuring the
degree of MCA stenosis.

PMID: 26115309  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


39. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130758. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130758.

Emergency Department Overcrowding and Ambulance Turnaround Time.

Lee YJ(1), Shin SD(2), Lee EJ(2), Cho JS(3), Cha WC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Korea; Laboratory of Emergency Medical Services, Seoul National University
Hospital Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul, Korea; Department of Social and
Preventive Medicine, Inha University Graduate School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Korea; Laboratory of Emergency Medical Services, Seoul National University
Hospital Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul, Korea. (3)Laboratory of Emergency 
Medical Services, Seoul National University Hospital Biomedical Research
Institute, Seoul, Korea; Department of Emergency Medicine, Gachon University Gil 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (4)Laboratory of Emergency Medical Services, Seoul
National University Hospital Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul, Korea;
Department of Emergency Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The aims of this study were to describe overcrowding in regional
emergency departments in Seoul, Korea and evaluate the effect of crowdedness on
ambulance turnaround time.
METHODS: This study was conducted between January 2010 and December 2010.
Patients who were transported by 119-responding ambulances to 28 emergency
centers within Seoul were eligible for enrollment. Overcrowding was defined as
the average occupancy rate, which was equal to the average number of patients
staying in an emergency department (ED) for 4 hours divided by the number of beds
in the ED. After selecting groups for final analysis, multi-level regression
modeling (MLM) was performed with random-effects for EDs, to evaluate
associations between occupancy rate and turnaround time.
RESULTS: Between January 2010 and December 2010, 163,659 patients transported to 
28 EDs were enrolled. The median occupancy rate was 0.42 (range: 0.10-1.94;
interquartile range (IQR): 0.20-0.76). Overcrowded EDs were more likely to have
older patients, those with normal mentality, and non-trauma patients. Overcrowded
EDs were more likely to have longer turnaround intervals and traveling distances.
The MLM analysis showed that an increase of 1% in occupancy rate was associated
with 0.02-minute decrease in turnaround interval (95% CI: 0.01 to 0.03). In
subgroup analyses limited to EDs with occupancy rates over 100%, we also observed
a 0.03 minute decrease in turnaround interval per 1% increase in occupancy rate
(95% CI: 0.01 to 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we found wide variation in emergency department
crowding in a metropolitan Korean city. Our data indicate that ED overcrowding is
negatively associated with turnaround interval with very small practical
significance.

PMID: 26115183  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


40. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129514. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129514.

The Importance of Integration of Stakeholder Views in Core Outcome Set
Development: Otitis Media with Effusion in Children with Cleft Palate.

Harman NL(1), Bruce IA(2), Kirkham JJ(1), Tierney S(3), Callery P(4), O'Brien
K(5), Bennett AM(6), Chorbachi R(7), Hall PN(8), Harding-Bell A(8), Parfect
VH(8), Rumsey N(9), Sell D(10), Sharma R(11), Williamson PR(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC North West Hub for Trials Methodology Research, Department of
Biostatistics, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom. (2)Central
Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Manchester Children's
Hospital, Manchester, United Kingdom. (3)Royal College of Nursing Research
Institute, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Warwick, United
Kingdom. (4)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, Jean McFarlane
Building, University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom. (5)The Healing
Foundation Cleft and Craniofacial Clinical Research Centre, School of Dentistry, 
University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom. (6)NHS Lothian, ENT
Department, Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. (7)North Thames Cleft
Service and the Department of Audiological Medicine/ Audiology/Cochlear implants.
Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London, United Kingdom. (8)Cleft Net
East, Cambridge University Hospital NHS Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge, United
Kingdom. (9)Centre for Appearance Research, Department of Health & Social
Sciences, University of the West of England, Bristol, United Kingdom. (10)North
Thames Cleft Service, Speech and Language Therapy, Great Ormond Street Hospital
for Children, London, United Kingdom. (11)North West, Isle of Man and North Wales
Cleft Lip and Palate Network, Alder Hey Children's NHS Foundation Trust,
Liverpool, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Approximately 75% of children with cleft palate (CP) have Otitis
Media with Effusion (OME) histories. Evidence for the effective management of OME
in these children is lacking. The inconsistency in outcome measurement in
previous studies has led to a call for the development of a Core Outcome Set
(COS). Despite the increase in the number of published COS, involvement of
patients in the COS development process, and methods to integrate the views of
patients and health professionals, to date have been limited.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: A list of outcomes measured in previous research was
identified through reviewing the literature. Opinion on the importance of each of
these outcomes was then sought from key stakeholders: Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) 
surgeons, audiologists, cleft surgeons, speech and language therapists,
specialist cleft nurses, psychologists, parents and children. The opinion of
health professionals was sought in a three round Delphi survey where participants
were asked to score each outcome using a bespoke online system. Parents and
children were also asked to score outcomes in a survey and provided an in-depth
insight into having OME through semi-structured interviews. The results of the
Delphi survey, interviews and parent/patient survey were brought together in a
final consensus meeting with representation from all stakeholders. A final set of
eleven outcomes reached the definition of "consensus in" to form the recommended 
COS: hearing; chronic otitis media (COM); OME; receptive language skills; speech 
development; psycho social development; acute otitis media (AOM); cholesteatoma; 
side effects of treatment; listening skills; otalgia.
CONCLUSIONS: We have produced a recommendation about the outcomes that should be 
measured, as a minimum, in studies of the management of OME in children with CP. 
The development process included input from key stakeholders and used novel
methodology to integrate the opinion of healthcare professionals, parents and
children.

PMID: 26115172  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


41. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130747. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130747.

A Systematic Literature Review of Studies Analyzing Inequalities in Health
Expectancy among the Older Population.

Pongiglione B(1), De Stavola BL(1), Ploubidis GB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Statistics Department, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, University of London, London,
United Kingdom. (2)Centre for Longitudinal Studies, Institute of Education,
London, United Kingdom.

AIM: To collect, organize and appraise evidence of socioeconomic and demographic 
inequalities in health and mortality among the older population using a summary
measure of population health: Health Expectancy.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted. Literature published in
English before November 2014 was searched via two possible sources: three
electronic databases (Web of Science, Medline and Embase), and references in
selected articles. The search was developed combining terms referring to outcome,
exposure and participants, consisting in health expectancy, socioeconomic and
demographic groups, and older population, respectively.
RESULTS: Of 256 references identified, 90 met the inclusion criteria. Six
references were added after searching reference lists of included articles.
Thirty-three studies were focused only on gender-based inequalities; the
remaining sixty-three considered gender along with other exposures. Findings were
organized according to two leading perspectives: the type of inequalities
considered and the health indicators chosen to measure health expectancy.
Evidence of gender-based differentials and a socioeconomic gradient were found in
all studies. A remarkable heterogeneity in the choice of health indicators used
to compute health expectancy emerged as well as a non-uniform way of defining
same health conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Health expectancy is a useful and convenient measure to monitor and 
assess the quality of ageing and compare different groups and populations. This
review showed a general agreement of results obtained in different studies with
regard to the existence of inequalities associated with several factors, such as 
gender, education, behaviors, and race. However, the lack of a standardized
definition of health expectancy limits its comparability across studies. The need
of conceiving health expectancy as a comparable and repeatable measure was
highlighted as fundamental to make it an informative instrument for policy
makers.

PMID: 26115099  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


42. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130138. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130138.

Repeat Diagnoses of Bethesda Category III Thyroid Nodules: What To Do Next?

Yoo MR(1), Gweon HM(1), Park AY(1), Cho KE(1), Kim JA(1), Youk JH(1), Son EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology and Research Institute of Radiological Science, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Gangnam Severance Hospital, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the malignancy rates of thyroid nodules repeatedly
classified as Bethesda category III on fine needle aspiration (FNA), and to
suggest management guidelines for these lesions.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study that included 395 thyroid nodules
categorized as Bethesda III undergone either surgery or ultrasound (US)
follow-up. There were 67 nodules classified a second time as Bethesda category
III on repeat FNA. We compared malignancy rates, clinicopathologic and
ultrasonographic characteristics between direct surgery and repeat FNA groups and
between the initial and repeat Bethesda category III groups, each. And in the
repeat Bethesda III group, clinicopathologic and US variables were compared
between benign and malignant nodules.
RESULTS: Incidence of concurrent cancer, underlying thyroiditis and positive BRAF
mutation were significantly higher in 142 nodules with direct surgery than 243
nodules with repeat FNA (p < 0.05). Of the 395 nodules with Bethesda category III
cytology on initial FNA, the malignancy rate was 59.5%. In 67 nodules with repeat
Bethesda III classification, however, the malignancy rate was 73.1% (p < 0.05).
However, none of the variables were significantly different between the initial
Bethesda category III group and the repeat Bethesda category III group (p >
0.05). In the repeat Bethesda category III group, solid consistency,
irregular/microlobulated margins, nonparallel shape, and number of suspicious
findings or "suspicious malignant" US assessments were associated with a high
malignancy rate (p < 0.05). On multivariate logistic regression analysis, the
factor associated with malignancy in the repeat Bethesda category III group was
irregular/microlobulated margin (odds ratio = 15.576; 95% CI, 2.097-115.6804, p =
0.007) with a sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, 
and accuracy of 81.6%, 83.3%, 93.0%, 62.5% and 82.1%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Thyroid nodules with repeated Bethesda category III classification
and irregular/microlobulated margins on US are at increased risk of malignancy,
and operative management should be considered as opposed to repeat FNA.

PMID: 26115096  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


43. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131122. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131122.

Cardiovascular Outcomes of Sitagliptin in Type 2 Diabetic Patients with Acute
Myocardial Infarction, a Population-Based Cohort Study in Taiwan.

Wang SH(1), Chen DY(2), Lin YS(3), Mao CT(4), Tsai ML(2), Hsieh MJ(2), Chou
CC(2), Wen MS(2), Wang CC(2), Hsieh IC(2), Hung KC(2), Chen TH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical education, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan,
Taiwan; College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. (2)College
of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Division of Cardiology,
Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Division of
Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital,
Chiayi, Taiwan. (4)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan;
Heart Failure Center, Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine,
Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Keelung, Taiwan. (5)College of Medicine, Chang Gung
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal
Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Department of
cardiology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Xiamen, China.

BACKGROUND: The cardiovascular safety and efficacy of sitagliptin, a dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, in type 2 diabetic patients after acute myocardial
infarction (AMI) has so far remained uncertain.
METHODS: We analyzed data from the National Health Insurance Research Database
(NHIRD), a government-operated, population-based database, from March 1st, 2009
to December 31st, 2011. Type 2 diabetic patients hospitalized for AMI were
included in our study. We compared subjects using sitagliptin with comparison
group to evaluate its cardiovascular safety and efficacy. The primary endpoint
was a composite of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and ischemic
stroke.
RESULTS: We identified a total of 3,282 type 2 diabetic patients hospitalized for
AMI (mean follow-up 1.15 years). Of these patients, 547 (16.7%) who were exposed 
to sitagliptin were defined as the sitagliptin group and 2,735 (83.3 %) who did
not use sitagliptin were the comparison group. The incidence of primary composite
cardiovascular outcomes was 9.50 per 100 person-years in the sitagliptin group
and was 9.70 per 100 person-years in the comparison group (hazard ratio (HR),
0.97; 95% CI, 0.73-1.29, P=0.849). Compared to the non-sitagliptin group, the
sitagliptin group had similar risks of all-cause mortality, hospitalization for
heart failure (HF) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with a HR of 0.82 
(95% CI, 0.61-1.11, P=0.195), 0.93 (95% CI, 0.67-1.29, P=0.660), and 0.93 (95%
CI, 0.75-1.14, P=0.473), respectively.
CONCLUSION: The use of sitagliptin in type 2 diabetic patients with recent AMI
was not associated with increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events.

PMID: 26115092  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


44. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130987. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130987.

Assessment of Double Outlet Right Ventricle Associated with Multiple
Malformations in Pediatric Patients Using Retrospective ECG-Gated Dual-Source
Computed Tomography.

Shi K(1), Yang ZG(2), Chen J(1), Zhang G(1), Xu HY(2), Guo YK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 37# Guo Xue 
Xiang, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China. (2)Department of Radiology, West China
Hospital, Sichuan University, 37# Guo Xue Xiang, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China; 
National Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
17# Section 3 South Renmin Road, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China. (3)Department of
Radiology, West China Second University Hospital, Sichuan University, 20# Section
3 South Renmin Road, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of retrospective
electrocardiographically (ECG)-gated dual-source computed tomography (DSCT) for
the assessment of double outlet right ventricle (DORV) and associated multiple
malformations in pediatric patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-seven patients <10 years of age with DORV underwent 
retrospective ECG-gated DSCT. The location of the ventricular septal defect
(VSD), alignment of the two great arteries, and associated malformations were
assessed. The feasibility of retrospective ECG-gated DSCT in pediatric patients
was assessed, the image quality of DSCT and the agreement of the diagnosis of
associated malformations between DSCT and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE)
were evaluated, the diagnostic accuracies of DSCT and TTE were referred to
surgical results, and the effective doses were calculated.
RESULTS: Apart from DORV, 109 associated malformations were confirmed
postoperatively. There was excellent agreement (κ = 0.90) for the diagnosis of
associated malformations between DSCT and TTE. However, DSCT was superior to TTE 
in demonstrating paracardiac anomalies (sensitivity, coronary artery anomalies:
100% vs. 80.00%, anomalies of great vessels: 100% vs. 88.57%, separate thoracic
and abdominal anomalies: 100% vs. 76.92%, respectively). Combined with TTE, DSCT 
can achieve excellent diagnostic performance in intracardiac anomalies
(sensitivity, 91.30% vs. 100%). The mean image quality score was 3.70 ± 0.46 (κ =
0.76). The estimated mean effective dose was < 1 mSv (0.88 ± 0.34 mSv).
CONCLUSIONS: Retrospective ECG-gated DSCT is a better diagnostic tool than TTE
for pediatric patients with complex congenital heart disease such as DORV.
Combined with TTE, it may reduce or even obviate the use of invasive cardiac
catheterization, and thus expose the patients to a much lower radiation dose.

PMID: 26115034  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


45. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131340. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131340.

Immediate and Long-Term Outcome of Acute H2S Intoxication Induced Coma in
Unanesthetized Rats: Effects of Methylene Blue.

Sonobe T(1), Chenuel B(1), Cooper TK(2), Haouzi P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine,
Pennsylvania State University, College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, United States of
America. (2)Department of Comparative Medicine, Pennsylvania State University,
College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, United States of America; Department of
Pathology, Pennsylvania State University, College of Medicine, Hershey, PA,
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Acute hydrogen sulfide (H2S) poisoning produces a coma, the outcome
of which ranges from full recovery to severe neurological deficits. The aim of
our study was to 1- describe the immediate and long-term neurological effects
following H2S-induced coma in un-anesthetized rats, and 2- determine the
potential benefit of methylene blue (MB), a compound we previously found to
counteract acute sulfide cardiac toxicity.
METHODS: NaHS was administered IP in un-sedated rats to produce a coma (n = 34). 
One minute into coma, the rats received MB (4 mg/kg IV) or saline. The surviving 
rats were followed clinically and assigned to Morris water maze (MWM) and open
field testing then sacrificed at day 7.
RESULTS: Sixty percent of the non-treated comatose rats died by pulseless
electrical activity. Nine percent recovered with neurological deficits requiring 
euthanasia, their brain examination revealed major neuronal necrosis of the
superficial and middle layers of the cerebral cortex and the posterior thalamus, 
with variable necrosis of the caudate putamen, but no lesions of the hippocampus 
or the cerebellum, in contrast to the typical distribution of post-ischemic
lesions. The remaining animals displayed, on average, a significantly less
effective search strategy than the control rats (n = 21) during MWM testing.
Meanwhile, 75% of rats that received MB survived and could perform the MWM test
(P<0.05 vs non-treated animals). The treated animals displayed a significantly
higher occurrence of spatial search than the non-treated animals. However, a
similar proportion of cortical necrosis was observed in both groups, with a
milder clinical presentation following MB.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, in rats surviving H2S induced coma, spatial search
patterns were used less frequently than in control animals. A small percentage of
rats presented necrotic neuronal lesions, which distribution differed from
post-ischemic lesions. MB dramatically improved the immediate survival and
spatial search strategy in the surviving rats.

PMID: 26115032  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


46. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130101. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130101.

Pre-Pregnancy Body Mass Index, Gestational Weight Gain, and Birth Weight: A
Cohort Study in China.

Yang S(1), Peng A(1), Wei S(2), Wu J(2), Zhao J(1), Zhang Y(1), Wang J(3), Lu
Y(3), Yu Y(3), Zhang B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primary Guidance, Wuhan Women and Children Health Care Center,
Wuhan, Hubei Province, 430015, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Environment and
Health, Ministry of Education & Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science
and Technology, Wuhan, China. (3)Maternal and Children Health Care Department of 
Districts of Wuhan, Wuhan, China.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI) modify the
relationship between gestational weight gain (GWG) and child birth weight
(specifically, presence or absence of low birth weight (LBW) or presence of
absence of macrosomia), and estimates of the relative risk of macrosomia and LBW 
based on pre-pregnancy BMI were controlled in Wuhan, China.
METHODS: From June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2013. All data was collected and
available from the perinatal health care system. Logistic regression models were 
used to estimate the independent association among pregnancy weight gain, LBW,
normal birth weight, and macrosomia within different pre-pregnancy BMI groups. We
built different logistic models for the 2009 Institute of Medicine (IOM)
Guidelines and Chinese-recommended GWG which was made from this sample. The
Chinese-recommended GWG was derived from the quartile values (25th-75th
percentiles) of weight gain at the time of delivery in the subjects which
comprised our sample.
RESULTS: For LBW children, using the recommended weight gain of the IOM and
Chinese women as a reference, the OR for a pregnancy weight gain below
recommendations resulted in a positive relationship for lean and normal weight
women, but not for overweight and obese women. For macrosomia, considering the
IOM's recommended weight gain as a reference, the OR magnitude for pregnancy
weight gain above recommendations resulted in a positive correlation for all
women. The OR for a pregnancy weight gain below recommendations resulted in a
negative relationship for normal BMI and lean women, but not for overweight and
obese women based on the IOM recommendations, significant based on the
recommended pregnancy weight gain for Chinese women. Of normal weight children,
56.6% were above the GWG based on IOM recommendations, but 26.97% of normal
weight children were above the GWG based on Chinese recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS: A GWG above IOM recommendations might not be helpful for Chinese
women. We need unified criteria to classify adult BMI and to expand the sample
size to improve representation and to elucidate the relationship between GWG and 
related outcomes for developing a Chinese GWG recommendation.

PMID: 26115015  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


47. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131528. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131528.

Forest Gaps Inhibit Foliar Litter Pb and Cd Release in Winter and Inhibit Pb and 
Cd Accumulation in Growing Season in an Alpine Forest.

He J(1), Yang W(1), Li H(1), Xu L(1), Ni X(1), Tan B(1), Zhao Y(1), Wu F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key laboratory of Ecological Forestry Engineering, Long-term Research Station 
of Alpine Forest Ecosystem, Institute of Ecology and Forestry, Sichuan
Agricultural University, Chengdu 611130, China.

AIMS: The release of heavy metals (such as Pb and Cd) from foliar litter play an 
important role in element cycling in alpine forest ecosystems. Although natural
forest gaps could play important roles in the release of heavy metals from foliar
litter by affecting the snow cover during the winter and solar irradiation during
the growing season, few studies have examined these potential roles. The
objectives of this study were to document changes in Pb and Cd dynamics during
litter decomposition in the center of gaps and under closed canopies and to
investigate the factors that controlled these changes during the winter and
growing seasons.
METHODS: Senesced foliar litter from six dominant species, including Kangding
willow (Salix paraplesia), Masters larch (Larix mastersiana), Mingjiang fir
(Abies faxoniana), Alpine azalea (Rhododendron lapponicum), Red birch (Betula
albosinensis) and Mourning cypress (Sabina saltuaria), was placed in litterbags
and incubated between the gap center and closed canopy conditions in an alpine
forest in the eastern region of the Tibetan Plateau. The litterbags were sampled 
at the snow formation stage, snow coverage stage, snow melt stage and during the 
growing season. The Pb and Cd concentrations in the sampled foliar litter were
determined by acid digestion (HNO3/HClO4).
IMPORTANT FINDINGS: Over one year of decomposition, Pb accumulation and Cd
release from the foliar litter occurred, regardless of the foliar litter species.
However, Pb and Cd were both released from the foliar litter during the winter
and accumulated during the growing season. Compared with the gap center and the
canopy gap edge, the extended gap edge and the closed canopy showed higher Pb and
Cd release rates in winter and higher Pb and Cd accumulation rates during the
growing season, respectively. Statistical analyses indicate that the dynamics of 
Pb were significantly influenced by frequent freeze-thaw cycles in winter and
appropriate hydrothermal conditions during the growing season, the dynamics of Cd
were strongly influenced by species and the presence of a forest gap at different
decomposition stages. These results show that forest gaps could inhibit Pb and Cd
release from foliar litter in the alpine forest of western Sichuan. In addition, 
a decrease in the snow depth in the winter warming scenario would promote the
release of Pb during foliar litter decomposition. There exist some difference
that may be influenced by litter quality, microenvironment and microtopography
during litter decomposition.

PMID: 26115012  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


48. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129428. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129428.

Skeletal Metastasis of Unknown Primary Origin at the Initial Visit: A
Retrospective Analysis of 286 Cases.

Takagi T(1), Katagiri H(2), Kim Y(3), Suehara Y(3), Kubota D(3), Akaike K(3),
Ishii M(3), Mukaihara K(3), Okubo T(3), Murata H(2), Takahashi M(2), Kaneko K(3),
Saito T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Juntendo University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center,
Shizuoka, Japan. (2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center,
Shizuoka, Japan. (3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Juntendo University School
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of Human Pathology, Juntendo University 
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Skeletal metastasis is a common metastatic event for several
carcinomas, and the treatment for skeletal metastasis of unknown primary (SMUP)
are a critical issue in cancer therapy. Making a diagnosis of the primary site is
the most crucial step in the treatment of SMUP; however, the procedures are
sometimes difficult and time-consuming, and the primary site often remains
unknown. Therefore, to establish optimal diagnostic strategies and elucidate the 
overall survival rates of SMUP, we conducted this retrospective study.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical data for 286 SMUP cases from a 
total of 2,641 patients with skeletal metastases who were treated between 2002
and 2014 at our initiations.
RESULTS: The primary sites were identified in 254/286 patients (88.8%), while 32 
(11.2%) primary sites were not detected by our diagnostic strategies. Lung cancer
was identified in 72 (25.2%) cases, and was the most frequently observed primary 
lesion. The median survival time of the SMUP patients was 20.0 months, while the 
median survival times of solitary bone metastasis cases and multi-bone metastasis
cases were 39.0 months and 16.0 months, respectively. The median survival times
of prostate cancer cases was over 120 months, that of patients with primary lung 
cancers was 9.0 months and the median survival time of cases who were finally
diagnosed with an unknown primary was 11.0 months.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that our study would contribute to establishing an
optimal strategy for diagnosing the primary site in SMUP patients, and our data
provide definite indications for the survival times for different SMUP
situations.

PMID: 26115010  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


49. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130279. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130279.

The Association between Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Metabolic Markers and Lipid
Profiles.

Wu WT(1), Tsai SS(2), Shih TS(3), Lin MH(3), Chou TC(4), Ting H(5), Wu TN(6),
Liou SH(7).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Health Research 
Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan. (2)Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National
Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan. (3)Institute of Labor, Occupational
Safety And Health, Ministry of Labor, Taipei, Taiwan. (4)Department of Public
Health, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan. (5)Department of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Chung-Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan;
Center of Sleep Medicine, Chung-Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan. (6)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Health
Research Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan; Department of Nursing, HungKuang University,
Taichung, Taiwan. (7)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
National Health Research Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan; Department of Public Health,
China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Public Health, National
Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between
apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) and metabolic markers and whether the elevated risk of
Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) is related to Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA).
METHODS: This cross-sectional study recruited 246 male bus drivers from one
transportation company in Taiwan. Each participant was evaluated by a
polysomnography (PSG) test and by blood lipids examination. Severity of OSA was
categorized according to the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI).
RESULTS: The results showed that a 73.3% prevalence of MetS in OSA (AHI > 15) and
a 80.0% prevalence of MetS in severe OSA (AHI > 30) were found. After adjusting
for confounding variables, an increased level of Body-Mass Index (BMI) and two
non-MetS cardiovascular risk factors, total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio and TG/HDL-C 
ratio was significantly associated with AHI in subjects with severe OSA. MetS was
about three times to be present in subjects with severe OSA, even adjusted for
BMI.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings showed a high prevalence of MetS in OSA among
professional drivers, especially in the severe group category. BMI was the major 
contributing factor to OSA. However, the present study did not find a sensitive
clinical marker of a detrimental metabolic profile in OSA patients.

PMID: 26115005  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


50. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130535. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130535.

Association of Gestational Age at Birth with Reasons for Subsequent
Hospitalisation: 18 Years of Follow-Up in a Western Australian Population Study.

Srinivasjois R(1), Slimings C(2), Einarsdóttir K(2), Burgner D(3), Leonard H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Joondalup Health Campus, The University of Western 
Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 6027, Australia. (2)Telethon Kids Institute,
The University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 6008, Australia.
(3)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Flemington Road, Parkville, Victoria,
3052, Australia; Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria, 3052, Australia; Department of Paediatrics, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, 3168, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Preterm infants are at a higher risk of hospitalisation following
discharge from the hospital after birth. The reasons for rehospitalisation and
the association with gestational age are not well understood.
METHODS: This was a retrospective birth cohort study of all live, singleton
infants born in Western Australia between 1st January 1980 and 31st December
2010, followed to 18 years of age. Risks of rehospitalisation following birth
discharge by principal diagnoses were compared for gestational age categories
(<32, 32-33, 34-36, 37-38 weeks) and term births (39-41weeks). Causes of
hospitalisations at various gestational age categories were identified using
ICD-based discharge diagnostic codes.
RESULTS: Risk of rehospitalisation was inversely correlated with gestational age.
Growth-related concerns were the main causes for rehospitalisation in the
neonatal period (<1 month of age) for all gestational ages. Infection was the
most common reason for hospitalisation from 29 days to 1 year of age, and up to 5
years of age. Injury-related hospitalisations increased in prevalence from 5
years to 18 years of age. Risk of rehospitalisation was higher for all preterm
infants for most causes.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest risks of rehospitalisation were for infection related
causes for most GA categories. Compared with full term born infants, those born
at shorter GA remain vulnerable to subsequent hospitalisation for a variety of
causes up until 18 years of age.

PMID: 26114969  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


51. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131404. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131404.

The Effects of Irreversible Electroporation on the Achilles Tendon: An
Experimental Study in a Rabbit Model.

Song Y(1), Zheng J(2), Yan M(3), Ding W(3), Xu K(4), Fan Q(4), Li Z(4).

Author information: 
(1)Orthopedics Oncology Institute of Chinese PLA and Department of Orthopedics,
Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, P.R. China; 
Department of General Surgery, NO. 202 Hospital of PLA, Shenyang, Liaoning, P.R. 
China. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi, P.R. China. (3)Department of Electrical Engineering, Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, P.R. China. (4)Orthopedics Oncology Institute of
Chinese PLA and Department of Orthopedics, Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military
Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the potential effects of irreversible electroporation
ablation on the Achilles tendon in a rabbit model and to compare the
histopathological and biomechanical changes between specimens following
electroporation ablation and radiofrequency ablation.
METHODS: A total of 140 six-month-old male New Zealand rabbits were used. The
animals were randomly divided into two groups, 70 in the radiofrequency ablation 
group and 70 in the electroporation group. In situ ablations were applied
directly to the Achilles tendons of rabbits using typical electroporation (1800
V/cm, 90 pulses) and radiofrequency ablation (power control mode) protocols.
Histopathological and biomechanical evaluations were performed to examine the
effects of electroporation ablation and radiofrequency ablation over time.
RESULTS: Both electroporation and radiofrequency ablation produced complete cell 
ablation in the target region. Thermal damage resulted in tendon rupture 3 days
post radiofrequency ablation. In contrast, electroporation-ablated Achilles
tendons preserved their biomechanical properties and showed no detectable rupture
at this time point. The electroporation-ablated tendons exhibited signs of
recovery, including tenoblast regeneration and angiogenesis within 2 weeks, and
the restoration of their integral structure was evident within 12 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: When applying electroporation to ablate solid tumors, major
advantage could be that collateral damage to adjacent tendons or ligaments is
minimized due to the unique ability of electroporation ablation to target the
cell membrane. This advantage could have a significant impact on the field of
tumor ablation near vital tendons or ligaments.

PMID: 26114962  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


52. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130709. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130709.

The Impact of Newer Biological Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs on
Cardiovascular Risk Factors: A 12-Month Longitudinal Study in Rheumatoid
Arthritis Patients Treated with Rituximab, Abatacept and Tociliziumab.

Provan SA(1), Berg IJ(1), Hammer HB(1), Mathiessen A(1), Kvien TK(1), Semb AG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. (2)Preventive
Cardio-Rheuma clinic, Dept. of Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo,
Norway.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether treatment with one of three novel biological
DMARDs; rituximab, abatacept or tocilizumab reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD)
risk factors in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: This is an open, observational and prospective study with visits at
baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months. Patients were assigned to receive rituximab,
abatacept or tocilizumab according to clinical indications assessed by an
independent rheumatologist. Disease activity was quantified by the disease
activity score (DAS28) and extensive ultrasonography. CVD risk was assessed by
total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), blood
pressure and arterial stiffness measurements [pulse wave velocity (PWV) and
augmentation index (AIx)]. Within group change in disease activity and CVD risk
over 3 months was explored using paired samples bivariate tests. Predictors of
change in CVD risk at 3 months were identified in linear regression models.
Changes in CVD risk markers over the 12- month follow-up in patients receiving
rituximab were assessed by mixed models repeated analyses.
RESULTS: 24 patients on rituximab, 5 on abatacept and 7 on tocilizumab were
included. At 3 months PWV was significantly reduced in the tocilizumab group
only, but at 12 months rituximab patients showed a significant reduction in PWV. 
Reduced inflammation at 3 months was associated with increased TC and HDL-c in
the entire cohort.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with tocilizumab and rituximab reduces PWV, a marker of CVD
risk, in patients with RA.

PMID: 26114946  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


53. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130273. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130273.

Investigation of Toll-Like Receptor-2 (2258G/A) and Interferon Gamma (+874T/A)
Gene Polymorphisms among Infertile Women with Female Genital Tuberculosis.

Bhanothu V(1), Lakshmi V(2), Theophilus JP(1), Rozati R(3), Badhini P(4),
Vijayalaxmi B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University College of Science, Osmania University,
Hyderabad, Telangana State, India. (2)Department of Microbiology, Nizam's
Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, Telangana State, India. (3)Department
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Owaisi Hospital & Research Centre, Hyderabad,
Telangana State, India. (4)Department of Genetics, University College of Science,
Osmania University, Hyderabad, Telangana State, India.

BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) coordinate
with a diverse array of cellular programs through the transcriptional regulation 
of immunologically relevant genes and play an important role in immune system,
reproductive physiology and basic pathology. Alterations in the functions of TLR2
2258G (guanine)/ A, IFN-γ (+874T/A) and signalling molecules that result from
polymorphisms are often associated with susceptibility or resistance, which may, 
in turn, establish the innate host response to various infectious diseases.
Presently, we proposed to investigate the risk of common single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) of TLR2 and IFN-γ genes, for their effect on infertility in
women with female genital tuberculosis (FGTB) and healthy women as controls.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Genotyping of TLR2 and IFN-γ gene polymorphisms
was performed by amplification refractory mutation system multi-gene/multi-primer
polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism in
175 FGTB patients and 100 healthy control women (HCW). The TLR2 polymorphism
[adenine (A) allele] was observed in 57.7 and 58.0% of FGTB patients and HCW,
respectively. The IFN-γ (+874T/A) polymorphism (A allele) was significant in 74.3
and 71.0% of FGTB patients and HCW, respectively, while the odds ratios for the
AA and TA genotypes for predisposition of FGTB were found to be 0.304 and 1.650
in HCW, respectively. The SNP of TLR2 was not associated with FGTB but the SNP of
IFN-γ was found to be associated with mycobacteria infections and to induce
infertility.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: At present, we hypothesize that infertile women with
FGTB and HCW without tuberculosis (TB) have identical frequency of TLR variants, 
which may be adequate in the production of IFN-γ in response to Mycobacterium
tuberculosis infections. Thus, the study appears to be the first of its kind
reporting a mutation in the IFN-γ gene [+874 T (thymine) to A] responsible for
susceptibility to TB infections and further inducing infertility.

PMID: 26114934  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


54. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131403. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131403.

PD-L1 and Survival in Solid Tumors: A Meta-Analysis.

Wu P(1), Wu D(2), Li L(3), Chai Y(4), Huang J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310009, China;
Cancer Institute (Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention & Intervention, National
Ministry of Education, Provincial Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Medical 
Sciences), Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310009, China. (2)Cancer Institute (Key Laboratory
of Cancer Prevention & Intervention, National Ministry of Education, Provincial
Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Medical Sciences), Second Affiliated
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 
310009, China. (3)Xixi Hospital of Hangzhou, Hangzhou, 310009, China.
(4)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310009, China.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310009, China;
Cancer Institute (Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention & Intervention, National
Ministry of Education, Provincial Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Medical 
Sciences), Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310009, China.

BACKGROUND: Numerous agents targeting PD-L1/PD-1 check-point are in clinical
development. However, the correlation between PD-L1expression and prognosis of
solid tumor is still in controversial. Here, we elicit a systematic review and
meta-analysis to investigate the potential value of PD-L1 in the prognostic
prediction in human solid tumors.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for studies evaluating the expression
of PD-L1 and overall survival (OS) of patients with solid tumors. Odds ratios
(ORs) from individual studies were calculated and pooled by using a random-effect
model, and heterogeneity and publication bias analyses were also performed.
RESULTS: A total of 3107 patients with solid tumor from 28 published studies were
included in the meta-analysis. The median percentage of solid tumors with PD-L1
overexpression was 52.5%. PD-L1 overexpression was associated with worse OS at
both 3 years (OR = 2.43, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.60 to 3.70, P < 0.0001)
and 5 years (OR = 2.23, 95% CI = 1.40 to 3.55, P = 0.0008) of solid tumors. Among
the tumor types, PD-L1 was associated with worse 3 year-OS of esophageal cancer, 
gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and urothelial cancer, and 5 year-OS of
esophageal cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that expression of PD-L1 is associated with
worse survival in solid tumors. However, the correlations between PD-L1 and
prognosis are variant among different tumor types. More studies are needed to
investigate the clinical value of PD-L1 expression in prognostic prediction and
treatment option.

PMID: 26114883  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


55. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131305. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131305.

Characteristics of the Delayed or Refusal Therapy in Breast Cancer Patients: A
Longitudinal Population-Based Study in Taiwan.

Chen SJ(1), Kung PT(2), Huang KH(3), Wang YH(3), Tsai WC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Services Administration, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacy, China Medical University Hospital,
Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Public Health, China Medical University,
Taichung, Taiwan. (2)Department of Healthcare Administration, Asia University,
Taichung, Taiwan. (3)Department of Health Services Administration, China Medical 
University, Taichung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The evidence indicated breast cancer was a cancer with high survival 
rate. However, there were still some breast cancer patients delaying or refusing 
therapy. So we conducted a cohort study to explore the relationship between
characteristics of breast cancer patients and delay or refusal of therapy within 
four months after cancer diagnosed.
METHODS: This was a retrospective national population-based study from 2004 to
2010 in Taiwan. This study included 35,095 patients with new diagnosis breast
cancer from Taiwan Cancer Registry Database. Several analysis methods, including 
t test, Chi-square test, generalized estimating equations of logistic regression 
analysis, and Cox proportional hazards model, were performed to explore the
characteristics of these patients and the relative risk of mortality with delay
or refusal of therapy.
RESULTS: Our study showed that the overall survival rates were significantly
different (p <0.05) between the breast cancer patients who delayed or refused
therapy and those with treatment. The patients who delayed or refused therapy had
lower 5-year overall survival rate compared with the treated group. The related
factors included age, Charlson comorbidity index, cancer staging (OR =
1.30-19.69; p <0.05), other catastrophic illnesses or injuries and the level of
diagnostic hospitals. However, the patients with different income levels and
degree of urbanization in living area were not statistically significant factors.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated that age and cancer staging were the main
patient characteristics affecting whether the patients delayed or refused
therapy. The delay or refusal of treatment was associated with the level of
diagnosing hospital.

PMID: 26114875  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


56. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129705. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129705.

Risk Factors for Low Birthweight in Zimbabwean Women: A Secondary Data Analysis.

Feresu SA(1), Harlow SD(2), Woelk GB(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pretoria, School of Health Systems and Public Health,
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Pretoria, South Africa; University of Zimbabwe,
Department of Community Medicine, Harare, Zimbabwe; School of Health Sciences,
College of Health Sciences, Walden University, Minneapolis, Minnesota, United
States of America. (2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Michigan, United States of America.
(3)Elizabeth Glacier AIDS Foundation, Washington, D.C., United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Low birth weight (LBW) remains the main cause of mortality and
morbidity in infants, and a problem in the care of pregnant women world-wide
particularly in developing countries. The purpose of this study was to describe
the socio-demographic, nutritional, reproductive, medical and obstetrical risk
factors for delivering a live LBW infant at Harare Maternity Hospital, Zimbabwe.
METHODS: A secondary data analysis from data obtained through a questionnaire and
delivery records was conducted. Linear regression models with a complimentary
log-log link function were used to estimate the relative risks for all LBW, term 
LBW and preterm LBW.
RESULTS: The frequency of LBW was 16.7%. Lack of prenatal care (adjusted relative
risk [ARR] 1.69, 95% CI 1.44, 1.98), mother's mid-arm circumference below 28.5
cm, (ARR 1.35, 95% CI 1.19, 1.54) and rural residence (ARR 1.22, 95% CI 1.04,
1.40) increased the risk of LBW. Eclampsia, anemia, and ante-partum hemorrhage,
were associated with LBW (ARR 2.64, 95% CI 1.30, 5.35; ARR = 2.63, 95% CI 1.16,
5.97; and ARR = 2.39, 95% CI 1.55, 3.68), respectively. Malaria increased the
risk of LBW (ARR = 1.89, 95% CI 1.21, 2.96). Prenatal care, infant sex, anemia,
antepartum hemorrhage, premature rapture of membranes and preterm labor were
associated with the three LBW categories. History of abortion or stillbirth,
history of LBW, malaria, eclampsia, and placenta Previa, were associated with all
LBW and preterm LBW, while pregnancy induced hypertension, and number of children
alive were associated with all LBW and term LBW.
CONCLUSIONS: LBW frequency remains high and is associated with nutritive,
reproductive, medical and obstetrical factors. Preterm LBW and term LBW have
similar and also different risk factors. Understanding the role of different risk
factors in these different LBW categories is important if the goal is to reduce
LBW frequency, and its complications, in Zimbabwe.

PMID: 26114867  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


57. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130843. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130843.

Anterior Subcutaneous versus Submuscular Transposition of the Ulnar Nerve for
Cubital Tunnel Syndrome: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Liu CH(1), Chen CX(1), Xu J(2), Wang HL(1), Ke XB(1), Zhuang ZY(1), Lai ZL(1), Wu
ZQ(1), Lin Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Quanzhou Orthopedic-Traumatological
Hospital, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medical, Quanzhou, Fujian
Province, China. (2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Shengli Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian Province, China. (3)Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, Fuzhou Second Hospital of Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian Province,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To pool reliable evidences for the optimum anterior transposition
technique in the treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome by comparing the clinical
efficacy of subcutaneous and submuscular anterior ulnar nerve transposition.
METHODS: A comprehensive search was conducted in PubMed MEDLINE, Cochrane
Library, EMBASE, Web of Science, OVID AMED, EBSCO and potentially relevant
surgical archives. Risk of bias of each included studies was evaluated according 
to Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. The risk ratio (RR)
and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for the clinical improvement in
function compared to baseline. Heterogeneity was assessed across studies, and
subgroup analysis was also performed based on the study type and follow-up
duration.
RESULTS: Three studies with a total of 352 participants were identified, and the 
clinically relevant improvement was used as the primary outcomes. Our
meta-analysis revealed that no significant difference was observed between two
comparison groups in terms of postoperative clinical improvement in those studies
(RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.25, P = 0.72). Meanwhile, subgroup analyses by study
type and follow-up duration revealed the consistent results with the overall
estimate. Additionally, the pre- and postoperative motor nerve conduction
velocities were reported in two studies with a total of 326 patients, but we
could not perform a meta-analysis because of the lack of concrete numerical value
in one study. The quality of evidence for clinical improvement was 'low' or
'moderate' on the basis of GRADE approach.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on small numbers of studies with relatively poor
methodological quality, the limited evidence is insufficient to identify the
optimum anterior transposition technique in the treatment of cubital tunnel
syndrome. The results of the present study suggest that anterior subcutaneous and
submuscular transposition might be equally effective in patients with ulnar
neuropathy at the elbow. Therefore, more high-quality randomized controlled
trials with standardized clinical improvement metrics are required to further
clarify this topic and to provide reproducible pre- and postoperative objective
outcomes.

PMID: 26114865  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


58. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130270. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130270.

Effects of a Multi-Disciplinary Lifestyle Intervention on Cardiometabolic Risk
Factors in Young Women with Abdominal Obesity: A Randomised Controlled Trial.

Share BL(1), Naughton GA(2), Obert P(3), Peat JK(4), Aumand EA(1), Kemp JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. (2)School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Murdoch Childrens Research Institute,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (3)School of Exercise Science, Australian
Catholic University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; LAPEC, EA4278, University of
Avignon, Avignon, France. (4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Australian Catholic
University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Young women are under-represented in cardiovascular disease research,
with obesity and cardiometabolic risk factor interventions generally targeting
older adults. Furthermore, appropriate study designs for young women remain
uncertain. This study aimed to assess the impact of a 12 week multi-disciplinary 
lifestyle intervention on cardiometabolic risk factors in premenopausal women
with abdominal obesity.
METHODS: Women aged 18-30 y with abdominal obesity [waist circumference (WC) ≥ 80
cm] were randomised to a 12 week lifestyle intervention (n = 26) of physical
activity, nutrition education and cognitive behavioural therapy, or a wait-list
control group (n = 17). Both groups completed anthropometric, biochemical,
nutrition and fitness testing, at pre (0 weeks) and post (12 weeks), with
intervention participants completed follow-up testing at 24 weeks.
RESULTS: Results from a linear mixed model showed no between-group differences,
other than increased physical activity in the intervention group, at post. In the
intervention group alone, positive within-group changes were observed in WC,
waist-hip-ratio (WHR), waist-height-ratio (WHtR), resting heart rate, blood
pressure, predicted VO2max, and total energy intake. Most changes were maintained
at 24 weeks post-intervention. Similar within-group improvements were observed in
control participants in WC, WHR, WHtR, and systolic blood pressure but no changes
were detected in physical activity and nutrition.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiometabolic risk factors were decreased as a result of a
lifestyle intervention in young women with abdominal obesity. It is difficult to 
describe observations in the control group without greater understanding of the
behaviour of wait-list participants.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
ACTRN12612001017819.

PMID: 26114854  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


59. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131284. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131284.

Incidence of and Risk Factors for Mastoiditis after Intensity Modulated
Radiotherapy in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma.

Yao JJ(1), Zhou GQ(1), Yu XL(2), Tang LL(1), Chen L(1), Mao YP(1), Lin L(1),
Zhang LL(1), Shao JY(3), Guo Y(4), Ma J(1), Sun Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for
Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 510060, Guangdong Province, People's Republic of
China. (2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China. (3)Department of
Pathology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of Oncology
in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou,
510060, Guangdong Province, People's Republic of China. (4)Department of Medical 
Statistics and Epidemiology, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun
Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: To report the incidence of and risk factors for mastoiditis after
intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of pretreatment and follow-up
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data for 451 patients with NPC treated with IMRT
at a single institution. The diagnosis of mastoiditis was based on MRI;
otomastoid opacification was rated as Grade 0 (none), 1 (mild), 2 (moderate) or 3
(severe) by radiologists blinded to clinical outcome. This study mainly focused
on severe mastoiditis; patients were divided into three groups: the G0M (Grade 0 
mastoiditis before treatment) group, G1-2M (Grade 1 to 2 mastoiditis before
treatment) group and G3M (Grade 3 mastoiditis before treatment) group. The
software SAS9.3 program was used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: For the entire cohort, the incidence of Grade 3 mastoiditis was 20%
before treatment and 31%, 19% and 17% at 3, 12 and 24 months after radiotherapy, 
respectively. In the G0M group, the incidence of severe mastoiditis was 0% before
treatment and 23%, 15% and 13% at 3, 12 and 24 months after radiotherapy,
respectively. Multivariate analysis revealed T category (OR=0.68, 95% CI = 0.469 
to 0.984), time (OR=0.668, 95% CI = 0.59 to 0.757) and chemotherapy (OR=0.598,
95% CI = 0.343 to 0.934) were independent factors associated with severe
mastoiditis in the G0M group after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Mastoiditis, as diagnosed by MRI, occurs as a progressive process
that regresses and resolves over time in patients with NPC treated using IMRT.

PMID: 26114761  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


60. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130677. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130677.

Potential Role of Circulating microRNA-21 for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Diagnosis:
A Meta-Analysis.

Liao Q(1), Han P(1), Huang Y(1), Wu Z(1), Chen Q(2), Li S(1), Ye J(3), Wu X(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. (2)Department of Epidemiology, Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Tropical Disease Research, School of Public Health and Tropical
Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Experimental Teaching Center of Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health
and Tropical Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: Circulating microRNA-21 (miR-21) is known to be aberrantly expressed 
in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients, and this implies that microRNA-21 is 
a promising and novel indicator of HCC. However, a systematic evaluation of the
performance of microRNA-21 as a diagnostic marker for HCC has yet to be
conducted. Therefore, the test performance of circulating miR-21 for HCC was
assessed in this study.
METHODS: Three common international databases and a Chinese electronic database
were used to search for literature on the diagnostic accuracy of microRNA-21 for 
HCC. The pooled results included the sensitivity and specificity of microRNA-21
for HCC detection and were analyzed with a random effect model. The area under
summary receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was used to estimate
overall test performance.
RESULTS: A total of 339 HCC patients and 338 controls without HCC from four
published studies were eligible for the meta-analysis and included in our study. 
The test performance of circulating miR-21 in HCC detection was assessed with the
summary estimates of sensitivity and specificity, which were 81.2% (95% CI: 70.8%
to 88.4%) and 84.8% (95% CI: 75.1% to 91.2%), respectively. The value of AUC was 
0.90 (95% CI: 0.87 to 0.92). Significant inter-study heterogeneity was detected
by our analysis, and sub-group analyses suggested that the type of control group 
was probably a source of heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our current findings suggested that circulating miR-21 can serve as 
a potential co-biomarker for early-stage HCC diagnosis. Thorough large-scale
studies are needed to confirm the generalizability of our findings.

PMID: 26114756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


61. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129268. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129268.

The Prognostic Impact of Histopathological Variants in Patients with Advanced
Urothelial Carcinoma.

Hsieh MC(1), Sung MT(2), Chiang PH(3), Huang CH(1), Tang Y(4), Su YL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung
Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (2)Department of Pathology,
Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of
Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (3)Department of Urology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung
Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung,
Taiwan. (4)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, E-Da
Hospital, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: This study investigated the prognostic role of histopathological
variants in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC) who were treated
with systemic chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of patients with
unresectable and/or metastatic UC who underwent systemic chemotherapy between
January 1997 and December 2013 in Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital.
Histopathological types were categorized as pure UC (PUC) and variants of UC
(VUC). The overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were
calculated using Kaplan-Meier analyses and Cox proportional regression models.
RESULTS: A total of 206 patients were enrolled; 53 of the patients (25.7%) had
histopathological variants. The most common variant was squamous differentiation 
(68%). Compared with patients with PUC, patients with VUC significantly exhibited
upper urinary tract origin (75% vs 52%, P = .008), chronic renal insufficiency
(40% vs 23%, P = .03), and carboplatin-based chemotherapy (28% vs 10%, P = .003).
According to univariate analysis, the median OS for PUC patients was
significantly higher than that for VUC patients (15.9 vs 11.3 months, P = .007). 
The median PFS for patients who received first-line chemotherapy was 6.1 and 3.8 
months for PUC patients and VUC patients, respectively (P = .004). Multivariate
analysis revealed that VUC (hazard ratio [HR] 1.67, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
1.16-2.40, P = .006), an age ≤ 60 years (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.49-0.99, P = .045) and
presence of visceral metastasis (HR 1.54, 95% CI 1.11-2.13, P = .009) were
independent factors facilitating OS prediction.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of histopathological variants indicates poor survival
outcomes in patients with metastatic UC. Accordingly, VUC should be integrated
into and considered an independent factor in a predictive model of survival.

PMID: 26114748  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


62. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0127602. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127602.

Association between Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) Variations rs6277 and rs1800497
and Cognitive Performance According to Risk Type for Psychosis: A Nested Case
Control Study in a Finnish Population Sample.

Ramsay H(1), Barnett JH(2), Miettunen J(3), Mukkala S(4), Mäki P(5), Liuhanen
J(6), Murray GK(7), Jarvelin MR(8), Ollila H(6), Paunio T(9), Veijola J(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, University of
Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Health Service Executive, Dublin, Ireland. (2)Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge,
United Kingdom; Cambridge Cognition Ltd., Bottisham, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, University of
Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Institute of Health Sciences, University of Oulu, Oulu,
Finland; Medical Research Center Oulu, University of Oulu and Oulu University
Hospital, Oulu, Finland. (4)Department of Psychiatry, Oulu University Hospital,
Oulu, Finland. (5)Department of Psychiatry, Centre for Clinical Neuroscience,
University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Department of Psychiatry, Oulu University
Hospital, Oulu, Finland; Department of Psychiatry, Länsi-Pohja healthcare
district, Finland; Department of Psychiatry, the Middle Ostrobothnia Central
Hospital, Kiuru, Finland; Mental health services, Joint Municipal Authority of
Wellbeing in Raahe District, Finland; Mental health services, Basic Health Care
District of Kallio, Finland; Visala Hospital, the Northern Ostrobothnia Hospital 
District, Finland. (6)Public Health Genomics Unit, National Institute for Health 
and Welfare and Institute for Molecular Medicine, Helsinki, Finland.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical
Campus, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (8)Department of Public Health Science and
General Practice, Institute of Health Sciences, University of Oulu, Oulu,
Finland; Faculty of Medicine, School of Public Health, Imperial College London,
London, United Kingdom. (9)Public Health Genomics Unit, National Institute for
Health and Welfare and Institute for Molecular Medicine, Helsinki, Finland;
Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Helsinki 
and Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. (10)Department of
Psychiatry, Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; 
Department of Psychiatry, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.

BACKGROUND: There is limited research regarding the association between genes and
cognitive intermediate phenotypes in those at risk for psychotic disorders.
METHODS: We measured the association between established psychosis risk variants 
in dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) and cognitive performance in individuals at age 23
years and explored if associations between cognition and these variants differed 
according to the presence of familial or clinical risk for psychosis. The
subjects of the Oulu Brain and Mind Study were drawn from the general
population-based Northern Finland 1986 Birth Cohort (NFBC 1986). Using linear
regression, we compared the associations between cognitive performance and two
candidate DRD2 polymorphisms (rs6277 and rs1800497) between subjects having
familial (n=61) and clinical (n=45) risk for psychosis and a random sample of
participating NFBC 1986 controls (n=74). Cognitive performance was evaluated
using a comprehensive battery of tests at follow-up.
RESULTS: Principal components factor analysis supported a three-factor model for 
cognitive measures. The minor allele of rs6277 was associated with poorer
performance on a verbal factor (p=0.003) but this did not significantly interact 
with familial or clinical risk for psychosis. The minor allele of rs1800497 was
associated with poorer performance on a psychomotor factor (p=0.038), though only
in those at familial risk for psychotic disorders (interaction p=0.049).
CONCLUSION: The effect of two DRD2 SNPs on cognitive performance may differ
according to risk type for psychosis, suggesting that cognitive intermediate
phenotypes differ according to the type (familial or clinical) risk for
psychosis.

PMID: 26114663  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


63. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129661. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129661.

The Transmodulation of HER2 and EGFR by Substance P in Breast Cancer Cells
Requires c-Src and Metalloproteinase Activation.

Garcia-Recio S(1), Pastor-Arroyo EM(1), Marín-Aguilera M(1), Almendro V(1),
Gascón P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain; Institut
d'Investigacions Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer, Barcelona, Spain. (2)Department 
of Medical Oncology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain; Institut d'Investigacions
Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer, Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medicine,
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Substance P (SP) is a pleiotropic cytokine/neuropeptide that enhances
breast cancer (BC) aggressiveness by transactivating tyrosine kinase receptors
like EGFR and HER2. We previously showed that SP and its cognate receptor NK-1
(SP/NK1-R) signaling modulates the basal phosphorylation of HER2 and EGFR in BC, 
increasing aggressiveness and drug resistance. In order to elucidate the
mechanisms responsible for NK-1R-mediated HER2 and EGFR transactivation, we
investigated the involvement of c-Src (a ligand-independent mediator) and of
metalloproteinases (ligand-dependent mediators) in HER2/EGFR activation.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Overexpression of NK-1R in MDA-MB-231 and its chemical
inhibition in SK-BR-3, BT-474 and MDA-MB-468 BC cells significantly modulated
c-Src activation, suggesting that this protein is a mediator of NK-1R signaling. 
In addition, the c-Src inhibitor 4-(4'-phenoxyanilino)-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline
prevented SP-induced activation of HER2. On the other hand, SP-dependent
phosphorylation of HER2 and EGFR decreased substantially in the presence of the
MMP inhibitor 1-10, phenanthroline monohydrate, and the dual inhibition of both
c-Src and MMP almost abolished the activation of HER2 and EGFR. Moreover, the use
of these inhibitors demonstrated that this Src and MMP-dependent signaling is
important to the cell viability and migration capacity of HER2+ and EGFR+ cell
lines.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the transactivation of HER2 and EGFR by the
pro-inflammatory cytokine/neuropeptide SP in BC cells is a c-Src and
MMP-dependent process.

PMID: 26114632  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


64. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130833. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130833.

Peripheral Nerve Diffusion Tensor Imaging: Assessment of Axon and Myelin Sheath
Integrity.

Heckel A(1), Weiler M(2), Xia A(3), Ruetters M(3), Pham M(3), Bendszus M(3),
Heiland S(4), Baeumer P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroradiology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg,
Germany; Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Freiburg University Hospital,
Freiburg, Germany. (2)Department of Neurology, Heidelberg University Hospital,
Heidelberg, Germany; Clinical Cooperation Unit Neurooncology, German Cancer
Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. (3)Department of Neuroradiology,
Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany. (4)Section of Experimental
Neuroradiology, Department of Neuroradiology, Heidelberg University Hospital,
Heidelberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To investigate the potential of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)
parameters as in-vivo biomarkers of axon and myelin sheath integrity of the
median nerve in the carpal tunnel as validated by correlation with
electrophysiology.
METHODS: MRI examinations at 3T including DTI were conducted on wrists in 30
healthy subjects. After manual segmentation of the median nerve quantitative
analysis of fractional anisotropy (FA) as well as axial, radial and mean
diffusivity (AD, RD, and MD) was carried out. Pairwise Pearson correlations with 
electrophysiological parameters comprising sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) 
and compound muscle action potential (CMAP) as markers of axon integrity, and
distal motor latency (dml) and sensory nerve conduction velocity (sNCV) as
markers of myelin sheath integrity were computed. The significance criterion was 
set at P=0.05, Bonferroni corrected for multiple comparisons.
RESULTS: DTI parameters showed a distinct proximal-to-distal profile with FA, MD,
and RD extrema coinciding in the center of the carpal tunnel. AD correlated with 
CMAP (r=0.50, p=0.04, Bonf. corr.) but not with markers of myelin sheath
integrity. RD correlated with sNCV (r=-0.53, p=0.02, Bonf. corr.) but not with
markers of axon integrity. FA correlated with dml (r=-0.63, p=0.002, Bonf. corr.)
and sNCV (r=0.68, p=0.001, Bonf. corr.) but not with markers of axon integrity.
CONCLUSION: AD reflects axon integrity, while RD (and FA) reflect myelin sheath
integrity as validated by correlation with electrophysiology. DTI parameters
consistently indicate a slight decrease of structural integrity in the carpal
tunnel as a physiological site of median nerve entrapment. DTI is particularly
sensitive, since these findings are observed in healthy participants. Our results
encourage future studies to evaluate the potential of DTI in differentiating axon
from myelin sheath injury in patients with manifest peripheral neuropathies.

PMID: 26114630  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


65. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131239. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131239.

Impact of Childhood Abuse on the Risk of Non-Suicidal Self-Injury in Mainland
Chinese Adolescents.

Wan Y(1), Chen J(1), Sun Y(1), Tao F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Maternal, Child & Adolescent Health, School of Public Health,
Anhui Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China; Anhui
Provincial Key Laboratory of Population Health & Aristogenics, 81 Meishan Road,
Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China.

BACKGROUND: Childhood abuse has been associated with significant increases in
non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI) behaviors in adolescents; however, only general
definitions of this risk indicator have been examined. This study identified
relationships between specific forms of childhood abuse and NSSI in mainland
Chinese adolescents.
METHOD: A total of 14,221 cases were retained from an epidemiological study
involving adolescents from junior and senior middle schools. Information relating
to the perpetrator, perceived harm, timing of exposure to different types of
childhood abuse, and NSSI were obtained. Logistic regression was used to analyze 
relationships between each form of childhood abuse and NSSI.
RESULTS: Approximately 51.0% of the students reported at least one abusive
childhood experience. Nearly one in four students (24.9%) reported that they had 
engaged in NSSI in the past 12 months. Each type of childhood abuse, occurring at
any time within the first 16 years of life, especially in situations of
continuous exposure, was significantly associated with NSSI. A significant graded
relationship was found between number of abusive childhood experiences and NSSI. 
Students maltreated by parents or others were at high risk of engaging in NSSI,
the risk was greater in students maltreated by both; students who had been
exposed to childhood abuse with no perceived harm still demonstrated an elevated 
risk for NSSI. The pattern of associations did not vary by gender.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that experiencing any of various forms of
childhood abuse should be considered a risk factor for NSSI during adolescence.
Further research should focus upon psychosocial, neural, and genetic factors that
might moderate or mediate the onset of NSSI in adolescents who have experienced
childhood abuse.

PMID: 26114574  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


66. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0129652. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129652.

Transcriptome-based identification of new anti-anti-inflammatory and vasodilating
properties of the n-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid in vascular endothelial
cell under proinflammatory conditions.

Massaro M(1), Martinelli R(2), Gatta V(3), Scoditti E(1), Pellegrino M(4),
Carluccio MA(1), Calabriso N(1), Buonomo T(5), Stuppia L(3), Storelli C(6), De
Caterina R(7).

Author information: 
(1)National Research Council (CNR), Institute of Clinical Physiology, Lecce,
Italy. (2)CEINGE Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy; Department of Medicine
and Surgery of Salerno University, Salerno, Italy. (3)"Gabriele d'Annunzio"
University and Center of Excellence on Aging, Chieti, Italy. (4)National Research
Council (CNR), Institute of Clinical Physiology, Lecce, Italy; Department of
Biological and Environmental Science and Technology (Disteba), University of
Salento, Lecce, Italy. (5)CEINGE Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy.
(6)Department of Biological and Environmental Science and Technology (Disteba),
University of Salento, Lecce, Italy. (7)"Gabriele d'Annunzio" University and
Center of Excellence on Aging, Chieti, Italy; Fondazione Toscana "Gabriele
Monasterio", Pisa, Italy.

SCOPE: High intakes of n-3 fatty acids exert anti-inflammatory effects and
cardiovascular protection, but the underlying molecular basis is incompletely
defined. By genome-wide analysis we searched for novel effects of docosahexaenoic
acid (DHA) on gene expression and pathways in human vascular endothelium under
pro-inflammatory conditions.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Human umbilical vein endothelial cells were treated with DHA
and then stimulated with interleukin(IL)-1β. Total RNA was extracted, and gene
expression examined by DNA microarray. DHA alone altered the expression of 188
genes, decreasing 92 and increasing 96. IL-1β changed the expression of 2031
genes, decreasing 997 and increasing 1034. Treatment with DHA before stimulation 
significantly affected the expression of 116 IL-1β-deregulated genes,
counter-regulating the expression of 55 genes among those decreased and of 61
among those increased. Functional and network analyses identified immunological, 
inflammatory and metabolic pathways as the most affected. Newly identified
DHA-regulated genes are involved in stemness, cellular growth, cardiovascular
system function and cancer, and included cytochrome p450 4F2(CYP4F2),
transforming growth factor(TGF)-β2, Cluster of Differentiation (CD)47, caspase
recruitment domain(CARD)11 and phosphodiesterase(PDE)5α.
CONCLUSIONS: Endothelial exposure to DHA regulates novel genes and related
pathways. Such unbiased identification should increase our understanding of
mechanisms by which n-3 fatty acids affect human diseases.

PMID: 26114549  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


67. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130815. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130815.

Effective Delivery of Endogenous Antioxidants Ameliorates Diabetic Nephropathy.

Park Y(1), Kim H(1), Park L(1), Min D(1), Park J(2), Choi S(2), Park MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Bioengineering, Hanyang University College
of Medicine and Engineering, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Biomedical Science
and Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Hallym University,
Chunchon, Korea. (3)Department of Pathology, Hanyang University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is thought to be partially due to the
injury of renal cells and the renal micro-environment by free radicals. Free
radial scavenging agents that inhibit free radical damage may well prevent the
development of underlying conditions such as mesangial expansion (by inhibiting
extracellular matrix expression) in these patients.
METHODS: Using techniques for intra-cellular delivery of peptides, we made
metallothionein (MT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD), potent endogenous
antioxidants, readily transducible into cell membrane and tested their protective
effect against the development of DN in OLETF rats. Herein, we study antioxidant 
peptides for their ability to prevent oxidative damage to primary rat mesangial
cells (MCs), which are important constituents of renal glomeruli.
RESULTS: Intraperitoneal administration of these antioxidants resulted in
delivery to the kidney and decreased ROS and the expression of downstream signals
in renal cells and postponed the usual progression to DN. In in vitro
experiments, MT and SOD were efficiently transferred to MCs, and the increased
removal of ROS by MT and SOD was proportional to the degree of scavenging enzymes
delivered. MT and SOD decreased three major oxidative injuries (hyperglycemia,
AGE and ROS exposure) and also injuries directly mediated by angiotensin II in
MCs while changing downstream signal transduction.
CONCLUSIONS: The protective effects of MT and SOD for the progression of DN in
experimental animals may be associated with the scavenging of ROS by MT and SOD
and correlated changes in signal transduction downstream. Concomitant
administration of these antioxidant peptides may prove to be a new approach for
the prevention and therapy of DN.

PMID: 26114547  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


68. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131627. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131627.

Ensemble Methods for MiRNA Target Prediction from Expression Data.

Le TD(1), Zhang J(2), Liu L(1), Li J(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Information Technology and Mathematical Sciences, University of
South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. (2)School of Engineering, 
Dali University, Dali, China.

BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNAs) are short regulatory RNAs that are involved in
several diseases, including cancers. Identifying miRNA functions is very
important in understanding disease mechanisms and determining the efficacy of
drugs. An increasing number of computational methods have been developed to
explore miRNA functions by inferring the miRNA-mRNA regulatory relationships from
data. Each of the methods is developed based on some assumptions and constraints,
for instance, assuming linear relationships between variables. For such reasons, 
computational methods are often subject to the problem of inconsistent
performance across different datasets. On the other hand, ensemble methods
integrate the results from individual methods and have been proved to outperform 
each of their individual component methods in theory.
RESULTS: In this paper, we investigate the performance of some ensemble methods
over the commonly used miRNA target prediction methods. We apply eight different 
popular miRNA target prediction methods to three cancer datasets, and compare
their performance with the ensemble methods which integrate the results from each
combination of the individual methods. The validation results using
experimentally confirmed databases show that the results of the ensemble methods 
complement those obtained by the individual methods and the ensemble methods
perform better than the individual methods across different datasets. The
ensemble method, Pearson+IDA+Lasso, which combines methods in different
approaches, including a correlation method, a causal inference method, and a
regression method, is the best performed ensemble method in this study. Further
analysis of the results of this ensemble method shows that the ensemble method
can obtain more targets which could not be found by any of the single methods,
and the discovered targets are more statistically significant and functionally
enriched. The source codes, datasets, miRNA target predictions by all methods,
and the ground truth for validation are available in the Supplementary materials.

PMID: 26114448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


69. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130649. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130649.

Retention in HIV Care and Predictors of Attrition from Care among HIV-Infected
Adults Receiving Combination Anti-Retroviral Therapy in Addis Ababa.

Mekuria LA(1), Prins JM(2), Yalew AW(3), Sprangers MA(4), Nieuwkerk PT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology, Netherlands
Institute for Health Sciences/Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands; School of Public Health, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases,
Trop Med & AIDS, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (3)School of Public Health, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia. (4)Department of Medical Psychology, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Patient retention in chronic HIV care is a major challenge following 
the rapid expansion of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) in Ethiopia.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the proportion of patients who are retained in HIV care
and characterize predictors of attrition among HIV-infected adults receiving cART
in Addis Ababa.
METHOD: A retrospective analysis was conducted among 836 treatment naïve
patients, who started cART between May 2009 and April 2012. Patients were
randomly selected from ten health-care facilities, and their current status in
HIV care was determined based on routinely available data in the medical records.
Patients lost to follow-up (LTFU) were traced by telephone. Kaplan-Meier
technique was used to estimate survival probabilities of retention and Cox
proportional hazards regression was performed to identify the predictors of
attrition.
RESULTS: Based on individual patient data from the medical records, nearly 80%
(95%CI: 76.7, 82.1) of the patients were retained in care in the first 3 and half
years of antiretroviral therapy. After successfully tracing more than half of the
LTFU patients, the updated one year retention in care estimate became 86% (95%
CI: 83.41%, 88.17%). In the multivariate Cox regression analyses, severe immune
deficiency at enrolment in care/or at cART initiation and 'bed-ridden' or
'ambulatory' functional status at the start of cART predicted attrition.
CONCLUSION: Retention in HIV care in Addis Ababa is comparable with or even
better than previous findings from other resource-limited as well as EU/USA
settings. However, measures to detect and enroll patients in HIV care as early as
possible are still necessary.

PMID: 26114436  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


70. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130807. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130807.

Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events in Treated Periodontitis: A Population-Based 
Follow-Up Study from Taiwan.

Chou SH(1), Tung YC(1), Lin YS(1), Wu LS(1), Lin CP(1), Liou EJ(2), Chang CJ(3), 
Kung S(4), Chu PH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department of Orthodontics and Craniofacial
Dentistry, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. (3)Clinical Informatics 
and Medical Statistics Research Center, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei,
Taiwan. (4)Division of Periodontology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei,
Taiwan; Cheers Dental Clinic, New Taipei, Taiwan. (5)Division of Cardiology,
Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan;
Healthcare Center, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Heart Failure
Center, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the present study was to identify the long-term major
adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in treated periodontitis patients in Taiwan.
METHODS: From the National Health Insurance Research Database (2001-2010), adult 
patients (≥ 18 years) with treated periodontitis were identified. Comparison was 
made between patients with mild form and severe form of treated periodontitis
after propensity score matching. The primary end point was the incidence of MACE.
RESULTS: A total of 32,504 adult patients with treated periodontitis were
identified between 2001 and 2010. After propensity score matching, 27,146
patients were preserved for comparison, including 13,573 patients with mild form 
and 13,573 patients with severe form of treated periodontitis. During follow-up, 
728 individuals in mild treated periodontitis group and 1,206 individuals in
severe treated periodontitis group had at least 1 MACE event. After adjustment
for gender, hyperlipidemia, hypertension and diabetes mellitus, severe treated
periodontitis was associated with a mildly but significantly increased risk of
MACE among older patients > 60 years of age (incidence rate ratio, 1.26; 95%
confidence interval, 1.08-1.46). No association was found among younger patients 
≤ 60 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: Severe form of treated periodontitis was associated with an
increased risk of MACE among older Taiwanese patients, but not among younger
Taiwanese patients. We should put more efforts on the improvement of periodontal 
health to prevent further MACE.

PMID: 26114433  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


71. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130352. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130352.

Cortical and Subcortical Grey and White Matter Atrophy in Myotonic Dystrophies
Type 1 and 2 Is Associated with Cognitive Impairment, Depression and Daytime
Sleepiness.

Schneider-Gold C(1), Bellenberg B(2), Prehn C(1), Krogias C(1), Schneider R(1),
Klein J(3), Gold R(1), Lukas C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, St. Josef-Hospital, Ruhr-University Bochum, Bochum,
Germany. (2)Department of Radiology, St. Josef-Hospital, Ruhr-University Bochum, 
Bochum, Germany. (3)Fraunhofer-MEVIS, Institute for Medical Image Computing,
Bremen, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Central nervous system involvement is one important clinical aspect
of myotonic dystrophy type 1 and 2 (DM1 and DM2). We assessed CNS involvement DM1
and DM2 by 3T MRI and correlated clinical and neuocognitive symptoms with brain
volumetry and voxel-based morphometry (VBM).
METHODS: 12 patients with juvenile or classical DM1 and 16 adult DM2 patients
underwent 3T MRI, a thorough neurological and neuropsychological examination and 
scoring of depression and daytime sleepiness. Volumes of brain, ventricles,
cerebellum, brainstem, cervical cord, lesion load and VBM results of the patient 
groups were compared to 33 matched healthy subjects.
RESULTS: Clinical symptoms were depression (more pronounced in DM2), excessive
daytime sleepiness (more pronounced in DM1), reduced attention and flexibility of
thinking, and deficits of short-term memory and visuo-spatial abilities in both
patient groups. Both groups showed ventricular enlargement and supratentorial GM 
and WM atrophy, with prevalence for more GM atrophy and involvement of the motor 
system in DM1 and more WM reduction and affection of limbic structures in DM2.
White matter was reduced in DM1 in the splenium of the corpus callosum and in
left-hemispheric WM adjacent to the pre- and post-central gyrus. In DM2, the
bilateral cingulate gyrus and subgyral medio-frontal and primary somato-sensory
WM was affected. Significant structural-functional correlations of morphological 
MRI findings (global volumetry and VBM) with clinical findings were found for
reduced flexibility of thinking and atrophy of the left secondary visual cortex
in DM1 and of distinct subcortical brain structures in DM2. In DM2, depression
was associated with brainstem atrophy, Daytime sleepiness correlated with volume 
decrease in the middle cerebellar peduncles, pons/midbrain and the right
medio-frontal cortex.
CONCLUSION: GM and WM atrophy was significant in DM1 and DM2. Specific
functional-structural associations related morphological changes to cognitive
impairment, depression and daytime sleepiness, partly indicating involvement of
complex neuronal networks.

PMID: 26114298  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


72. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0130217. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130217.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Universal Vaccination of Adults Aged 60 Years with
23-Valent Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine versus Current Practice in Brazil.

de Soárez PC(1), Sartori AM(2), Freitas AC(2), Nishikawa ÁM(1), Novaes HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (2)Clínica de Moléstias Infecciosas e
Parasitárias, Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of introducing universal
vaccination of adults aged 60 years with the 23-valent pneumococcal
polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) into the National Immunization Program (NIP) in
Brazil.
METHODS: Economic evaluation using a Markov model to compare two strategies: (1) 
universal vaccination of adults aged 60 years with one dose of PPV23 and 2)
current practice (vaccination of institutionalized elderly and elderly with
underlying diseases). The perspective was from the health system and society.
Temporal horizon was 10 years. Discount rate of 5% was applied to costs and
benefits. Clinical syndromes of interest were invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD)
including meningitis, sepsis and others and pneumonia. Vaccine efficacy against
IPD was obtained from a meta-analysis of randomized control trials and randomized
studies, whereas vaccine effectiveness against pneumonia was obtained from cohort
studies. Resource utilization and costs were obtained from the Brazilian Health
Information Systems. The primary outcome was cost per life year saved (LYS).
Univariate and multivariate sensitivity analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The universal vaccination strategy avoided 7,810 hospitalizations and
514 deaths, saving 3,787 years of life and costing a total of USD$31,507,012 and 
USD$44,548,180, respectively, from the health system and societal perspective.
The universal immunization would result in ICERs of USD$1,297 per LYS, from the
perspective of the health system, and USD$904 per LYS, from the societal
perspective.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that universal vaccination of adults aged 60
years with the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) is a very
cost-effective intervention for preventing hospitalization and deaths for IPD and
pneumonia is this age group in Brazil.

PMID: 26114297  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


73. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0131618. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131618.

"Attacks" or "Whistling": Impact of Questionnaire Wording on Wheeze Prevalence
Estimates.

Pescatore AM(1), Spycher BD(1), Beardsmore CS(2), Kuehni CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (2)Division of Child Health, Department of Infection, Immunity and
Inflammation, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of prevalence of wheeze depend on questionnaires. However, 
wording of questions may vary between studies. We investigated effects of
alternative wording on estimates of prevalence and severity of wheeze, and
associations with risk factors.
METHODS: White and South Asian children from a population-based cohort (UK) were 
randomly assigned to two groups and followed up at one, four and six years (1998,
2001, 2003). Parents were asked either if their child ever had "attacks of
wheeze" (attack group, N=535), or "wheezing or whistling in the chest" (whistling
group, N=2859). All other study aspects were identical, including questions about
other respiratory symptoms.
RESULTS: Prevalence of wheeze ever was lower in the attack group than in the
whistling group for all surveys (32 vs. 40% in white children aged one year,
p<0.001). Prevalence of other respiratory symptoms did not differ between groups.
Wheeze tended to be more severe in the attack group. The strength of association 
with risk factors was comparable in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The wording of questions on wheeze can affect estimates of
prevalence, but has less impact on measured associations with risk factors.
Question wording is a potential source of between-study-heterogeneity in
meta-analyses.

PMID: 26114296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


74. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 26;10(6):e0123737. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123737.

Is Strain Elastography (IO-SE) Sufficient for Characterization of Liver Lesions
before Surgical Resection-Or Is Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound (CEUS) Necessary?

Jung EM(1), Platz Batista da Silva N(1), Jung W(2), Farkas S(3), Stroszczynski
C(1), Rennert J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital Regensburg, Department of Radiology, Regensburg, Germany. 
(2)Saarland University, Department of Materials Research, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(3)University Hospital Regensburg, Department of Surgery, Regensburg, Germany.

AIM: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of IO-SE in comparison to IO-CEUS for
the differentiation between malignant and benign liver lesions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a retrospective diagnostic study IO-CEUS and SE
examinations of 49 liver lesions were evaluated and compared to histopathological
examinations. Ultrasound was performed using a multifrequency linear probe (6-9
MHz). The loops of CEUS were evaluated up to 5 min. The qualitative
characterization of IO-SE was based on a color coding system (blue = hard, red = 
soft). Stiffness of all lesions was quantified by a specific scaling of 0-6 (0 = 
low, 6 = high) using 7 ROIs (2 central, 5 peripheral).
RESULTS: All malignant lesions displayed a characteristic portal venous washout
and could be diagnosed correctly by IO-CEUS. 3/5 benign lesions could not be
characterized properly either by IO-CEUS or IO-SE prior to resection. Thus for
IO-CEUS sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value and
accuracy were 100%, 40%, 94%, 100% and 94%. Lesion sizes were between 8 and 59 mm
in diameter. Regarding the IO-SE, malignant lesions showed a marked variability. 
In qualitative analysis, 31 of the malignant lesions were blue colored denoting
overall induration. Thirteen malignant lesions showed an inhomogenous color
pattern with partial indurations. Two of the benign lesions also displayed
overall induration. The other benign lesions showed an inhomogenous color
mapping. Calculated sensitivity of the SE was 70.5%, specificity 60%, PPV 94%,
NPV 18.75%, and accuracy 69%.
CONCLUSION: IO-CEUS is useful for localization and characterization of liver
lesions prior to surgical resection whereas IO-SE provided correct
characterization only for a limited number of lesions.

PMID: 26114286  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


75. Am J Pharmacol Sci. 2015;3(2):38-43.

Pharmacoeconomics of Antimalarials in Private-for-Profit (PFP) Drug-Outlets in
Gulu and Kitgum Towns, Northern Uganda.

Maghanga M(1), Gerald O(2), David M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Business and Development Studies, Gulu University, P. O. Box 166
Gulu, Uganda. (2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Gulu University, 
P. O. Box 166 Gulu, Uganda. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine,
Gulu University, P. O. Box 166 Gulu, Uganda.

BACKGROUND: Clinically-diagnosed malaria is the leading cause of morbidity and
mortality in Uganda accounting for 25 to 40% of outpatients, 15 to 20% of all
hospital admissions, and 9 to 14% of all hospital deaths. This situation was
exacerbated by The Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) rebellion in northern Uganda
which completely ran down the health care system. While malaria remains the
number one killer disease in northern Uganda, antimalarials are lacking in the
public health facilities. Consequently, Private-for-profit drug-outlets have come
up to help bridge the gap. However, the cost-effectiveness and treatment outcome 
ratings of antimalarials are not clear. Objective: To assess the
pharmacoeconomics of malaria treatment in Private-for-profit (PFP) drug-outlets
in Gulu Municipality and Kitgum Town Council.
METHODOLOGY: This was a descriptive cross-sectional study sites were registered
drug outlets. Study participants were drug-outlet owners, their employees, and
malaria patients. We employed both purposive and random sampling methods to
select the study participants. Data were collected using questionnaires and
analysed using the SPSS computer package.
RESULTS: Up to 91.1% of the respondents indicated that antimalarials are
expensive. The prices varied from less than 5,000 to over 20,000 Ugandan
shillings per dose (Exchange rate: 1$ = Ush 2,650). Fansidar and chloroquine were
rated as being relatively cheap and ACTs expensive (Ush 11,000 to 15,000).
Duration of treatment, frequency of administration, needles and syringes, raised 
the cost of some medicines. Most patients preferred cheap medicines (76.2%);
those with low administration frequencies (77.5%); and those with short treatment
duration (95%). Most patients (80.9%) buy antimalarials without testing, while
66.6% do not buy full doses.
CONCLUSION: The cost benefit analysis of the use of antimalarials is
unfavourable. The unit price of the medicines, their irrational use and the lack 
of professionals in the outlets together add up to high overall costs and poor
treatment outcomes.

PMCID: PMC4477041
PMID: 26114152  [PubMed]


76. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):224-7. eCollection 2014.

First Palaearctic Record of the Bird Parasite Passeromyia heterochaeta (Diptera: 
Muscidae) from the Iranian Persian Gulf Islands.

Grzywacz A(1), Khoobdel M(2), Akbarzadeh K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Ecology and Biogeography, Faculty of Biology and Environment
Protection, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Lwowska, Poland. (2)Health Research
Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, Tehran, Iran. 
(3)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Passeromyia is a muscid genus previously known from the Old World
Afrotropical and Oriental regions and eastwards from Australia and the West
Pacific. The genus is known from nest-dwelling larvae which may be parasites of
the nestlings. This study was aimed to identify of the Passeromyia species in the
Iranian Persian Gulf Islands.
METHODS: The flies were collected during April 2010 to March 2011 on the 4
Iranian Persian Gulf islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb, Abu-Mousa and Qeshm with
fly bottle trap and entomological net.
RESULTS: During this sampling, 18 representatives of P. heterochaeta, a species
with free-living haematophagous larvae, have been collected. The species is
reported herein from Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb, Abu-Mousa and Qeshm islands.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first Palaearctic record of the species as well as the
first report of the genus Passeromyia from the Palaearctic Region.

PMCID: PMC4478435
PMID: 26114137  [PubMed]


77. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):219-23. eCollection 2014.

Species Diversity and Distribution of Ticks (Acari: Ixodidae) in Zabol County,
Eastern Iran.

Ganjali M(1), Dabirzadeh M(2), Sargolzaie M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Zabol, Zabol, Iran. (2)Department of Microbiology, School of Public Health, Zabol
University of Medical Sciences, Zabol, Iran. (3)Veterinary Office of Zabol,
Zabol, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Ticks are important vectors of human and animal pathogens. They are
considered as main vectors for transmission of many viral, bacterial, rickettsial
and parasitical pathogens. The aim of the present study was to find out species
diversity of ticks, which infested the domestic ruminants in Zabol County,
Eastern Iran in 2012.
METHODS: Ticks were selected randomly from sheep, goats, cattle and camels. The
ticks were collected from the body of infested animals and stored in 70% ethanol,
then transported to the laboratory of Zabol University of Medical Sciences.
Following examinations under stereomicroscope, ticks were identified using
available taxonomic keys.
RESULTS: In this study, a total number of 469 adult ticks (381 males and 88
females) were collected. Ticks were classified into 2 genera and 9 species
including: Hyalomma dromedarii (17.3%), Hy. schulzei (1.8%), Hy. marginatum
(0.5%), Hy. anatolicum excavatum (12.60%), Hy. anatolicum anatolicum (11.2%), Hy.
asiaticum asiaticum (11.0%), Rhipicephalus sanguineus (21.2%), Rh. bursa (10.2%) 
and Rh. turacunis (13.911%). The frequency of genus Hyalomma (54.6%) was higher
than Rhipicephalus. Rh. sanguineus was the predominant tick species and accounted
for 21.26% of the ticks. The ratio of males was more than the female ticks.
CONCLUSION: Hyalomma and Rhipicephalus species are commonly distributed in the
study area. Further investigations are needed to identify the role of above tick 
species as vectors of pathogenic organisms.

PMCID: PMC4478434
PMID: 26114136  [PubMed]


78. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):212-8. eCollection 2014.

Mosquito Fauna (Diptera: Culicidae) of Hamedan County, Western Iran.

Zahirnia AH(1), Zendehfili H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Medicine,
Hamedan University of Medical Sciences, Hamedan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify and determine the larval and adult
mosquitoes (Culicidae) fauna in Hamedan County, western Iran.
METHODS: It was a cross-sectional study which took place in four area of the
Hamedan County. Sampling methods for larvae, pupae and adults were dipping, hand 
catch, night catch and total catch. Larvae and adult mosquitoes collected and
were sent to laboratory of Medical Entomology, Hamedan University of Medical
Sciences, Hamedan, Iran for further identification to species level to
determination of fauna. Data analysis was performed using SPSS software
version19.
RESULTS: Three genera and eight species of family Culicidae were collected and
identified in Hamedan County, Hamedan Province, West Iran, during May to October 
2013. These species included: Culex theileri, Cx. pipiens, Cx. antennatus,
Culiseta subochrea, Cs. langiareolata, Anopheles superpictus, An. maculipennis
and An. stephensi. The species Cx. antennatus and An. stephensi were reported for
the first time in Hamedan County.
CONCLUSION: An. stephensi and Cx. antennatus caught had not been previously
recorded in Hamedan Province. Due to vast agricultural activities in the province
which provides suitable environment for the establishment of various species of
mosquitoes and since many of them are potential vectors of human and domesticated
animal pathogens, their ecology needs to be studied extensively.

PMCID: PMC4478433
PMID: 26114135  [PubMed]


79. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):204-11. eCollection 2014.

Anaplasma Infection in Ticks, Livestock and Human in Ghaemshahr, Mazandaran
Province, Iran.

Hosseini-Vasoukolaei N(1), Oshaghi MA(1), Shayan P(2), Vatandoost H(1),
Babamahmoudi F(3), Yaghoobi-Ershadi MR(1), Telmadarraiy Z(1), Mohtarami F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vectors Control, School of Public Health,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Deptment of Parasitology,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tehran, Iran. (3)Department of
Infectious Diseases, Mazandaran University of Medical Science, Sari, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Anaplasmosis is an important issue for animal breeders in terms of
economic losses as well as a health concern to human. Ticks are considered as the
main vector of this disease. Lack of documented information about Anaplasma
species in Iran was the scope of this study to determine the population of ticks 
and the presence of Anaplasma in ticks, domestic ruminants and also human beings 
in northern Iran.
METHODS: A total of 101 unengorged hard ticks, 78 domestic ruminants and 40 human
blood samples collected from Ghaemshahr, Mazandaran Province, northern Iran were 
tested by nested PCR against 16s rRNA gene of Anaplasma species.
RESULTS: Positive PCR was found in 50 ticks, 28 sheep, 2 cattle, one goat, and 10
human specimens. Sequence analysis of the PCR products confirmed presence of A.
ovis in two Rhipicephalus sanguineus and two Ixodes ricinus ticks, one human and 
4 sheep samples. Moreover one Boophilus annulatus tick and one sheep sample were 
infected with A. bovis. Furthermore one sample of sheep was infected with A.
centrale.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first report of tick infection to A. ovis, A. bovis
and human infection to A. ovis in Iran. The result of this study is a survey of
Anaplasma infections from ticks, domestic animals and human in Iran which help to
have appropriate prevention measures for anaplasmosis.

PMCID: PMC4478432
PMID: 26114134  [PubMed]


80. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):197-203. eCollection 2014.

Biodiversity of Aquatic Insects of Zayandeh Roud River and Its Branches, Isfahan 
Province, Iran.

Shayeghi M(1), Vatandoost H(1), Gorouhi A(1), Sanei-Dehkordi AR(1), Salim-Abadi
Y(1), Karami M(1), Jalil-Navaz MR(1), Akhavan AA(1), Shiekh Z(1), Vatandoost
S(2), Arandian MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Zoology,
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. (3)Isfahan Health Research Station, National 
Institute of Health Research, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Aquatic insects are the major groups of arthropods that spend some
parts of their life cycle in the water. These insects play an important role for 
transmission of some human and animal diseases. There is few information about
the aquatic insects fauna of Iran.
METHODS: To study the aquatic insects fauna, adult, nymphal and larval
collections were carried out from different habitats using the standard technique
in Zayandeh Roud River, Isfahan Province,central Iran, during summer 2011.
RESULTS: In total, 741 speimens of aquatic insects were collected and
morphologically identified. They include 7 families and 12 genera representing 2 
Orders. The order of Diptera (92.31%) and Coleoptera (7.69%). The families
Culicidae, Syrphidae and Chironomidae from Diptera order, Gyrinidae, Dytiscidae, 
Haliplidae, Hydrophilidae from Coleoptera order were identified.
CONCLUSION: Some aquatic insects play an important role for transmission of human
and animal diseases. These insects also are important for biological control.
Therefore ecological study on aquatic insects can provide information about
ecology of insects in an area for any decision making.

PMCID: PMC4478431
PMID: 26114133  [PubMed]


81. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):186-96. eCollection 2014.

Distribution of Anopheles culicifacies and Detection of its Sibling Species E
from Madhya Pradesh: Central India.

Sharma AK(1), Tyagi V(1), Singh S(2), Veer V(3), Agrawal OP(4), Sukumaran D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vector Management Division, Defence Research and Development Establishment,
Madhya Pradesh, India. (2)National Institute of Malaria Research, New Delhi,
India. (3)Defence Research Laboratory, Assam, India. (4)School of Studies in
Zoology, Jiwaji University, Madhya Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Anopheles culicifacies is an important vector of malaria in Southeast
Asia, contributing to almost 70% of malaria cases in India. It exists as a
complex of five morphologically indistinguishable species A, B, C, D and E with
varied geographical distribution patterns. In India, 8% of the total population
of Madhya Pradesh (Central India) contributes about 30% of total malaria cases,
60% of total falciparum cases and 50% of malaria deaths. An. culicifacies is the 
major malaria vector in this state. Vector control mainly relies on the proper
identification and distribution of vector species exists in a particular area.
The present study was carried out to identify the distribution of An.
culicifacies sibling species in certain endemic district of Central India, Madhya
Pradesh.
METHODS: The An. culicifacies mosquitoes collected from the study districts were 
identified morphologically. The genomic DNA was isolated from the mosquitoes and 
subjected to Allele specific PCR targeting D3 domain of 28S ribosomal DNA.
RESULTS: The mean prevalence of An. culicifacies during the study period was in
the range of 8-120 per man per hour (PMH). From the study areas species B was
identified from Jabalpur, Chindwara and Hoshangabad, Species C from Hoshangabad
only, Species D from Narsinghpur and Khandwa and sibling species E from Mandla,
Chindwara and Hoshangabad respectively.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report to detect species E from Madhya Pradesh
region which necessitate for reconsideration of species distribution of each An. 
culicifacies sibling species that would enable to develop required vector control
strategies.

PMCID: PMC4478430
PMID: 26114132  [PubMed]


82. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):174-85. eCollection 2014.

Differential Larval Toxicity and Oviposition Altering Activity of Some Indigenous
Plant Extracts against Dengue and Chikungunya Vector Aedes albopictus.

Yadav R(1), Tyagi V(1), Tikar SN(1), Sharma AK(1), Mendki MJ(1), Jain AK(2),
Sukumaran D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vector Management Division, Defence Research and Development Establishment,
Gwalior, India. (2)School of Studies Botany, Jiwaji University, Gwalior, India.

BACKGROUND: Mosquitoes are well known as vectors of several disease causing
pathogens. The extensive use of synthetic insecticides in the mosquito control
strategies resulted to the development of pesticide resistance and fostered
environmental deterioration. Hence in recent years plants become alternative
source of mosquito control agents. The present study assessed the larvicidal and 
oviposition altering activity of six different plants species-Alstonia scholaris,
Callistemon viminalis, Hyptis suaveolens, Malvastrum coromandelianum, Prosopis
juliflora, Vernonia cinerea against Aedes albopictus mosquito in laboratory.
METHODS: Leaf extracts of all the six plants species in five different solvents
of various polarities were used in the range of 20-400ppm for larval bioassay and
50,100 and 200ppm for cage bioassay (for the study of oviposition behavior)
against Ae. albopictus. The larval mortality data were recorded after 24 h and
subjected to Probit analysis to determine the lethal concentrations (LC50), while
OAI (Oviposition activity index) was calculated for oviposition altering activity
of the plant extracts.
RESULTS: Vernonia cinerea extract in acetone and C. viminalis extract in
isopropanol were highly effective against Aedes albopictus larvae with LC50 value
64.57, 71.34ppm respectively. Acetone extract of P. juliflora found to be strong 
oviposition-deterrent which inhibited >2 fold egg laying (OAI-0.466) at 100ppm.
CONCLUSION: Vernonia cinerea and C. viminallis leaf extracts have the potential
to be used as larvicide and P. juliflora as an oviposition-deterrent for the
control of Ae. albopictus mosquito.

PMCID: PMC4478429
PMID: 26114131  [PubMed]


83. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):163-73. eCollection 2014.

Fauna and Larval Habitats of Mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) of West Azerbaijan
Province, Northwestern Iran.

Khoshdel-Nezamiha F(1), Vatandoost H(2), Azari-Hamidian S(3), Bavani MM(2),
Dabiri F(4), Entezar-Mahdi R(5), Chavshin AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center of Social Determinants of Health, Urmia University of Medical 
Sciences, Urmia, Iran ; Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control,
School of Public Health, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)School of Health, Guilan 
University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran. (4)Department of Medical Entomology 
and Vector Control, School of Public Health, Urmia University of Medical
Sciences, Urmia, Iran. (5)Director of Health Deputy of West Azerbaijan, Urmia
University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Several important diseases are transmitted by mosquitoes. Despite of 
the potential of the occurrence of some mosquito-borne diseases such as West
Nile, dirofilariasis and malaria in the region, there is no recent study of
mosquitoes in West Azerbaijan Province. The aim of this investigation was to
study the fauna, composition and distribution of mosquitoes and the
characteristics of their larval habitats in this province.
METHODS: Larvae and adult collections were carried out from different habitats
using the standard methods in twenty five localities of seven counties across
West Azerbaijan Province.
RESULTS: Overall, 1569 mosquitoes including 1336 larvae and 233 adults were
collected from 25 localities. The details of geographical properties were
recorded. Five genera along with 12 species were collected and identified
including: Anopheles claviger, An. maculipennis s.l., An. superpictus, Culex
pipiens, Cx. theileri, Cx. modestus, Cx. hortensis, Cx. mimeticus, Culiseta
Longiareolata, Ochlerotatus caspius s.l., Oc. geniculatus and Uranotaenia
unguiculata. This is the first record of Oc. geniculatus in the province.
CONCLUSION: Due to the geographical location of the West Azerbaijan Province, it 
comprises different climatic condition which provides suitable environment for
the establishment of various species of mosquitoes. The solidarity geographical, 
cultural and territorial exchanges complicate the situation of the province and
its vectors as a threat for future and probable epidemics of mosquito-borne
diseases.

PMCID: PMC4478428
PMID: 26114130  [PubMed]


84. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):156-62. eCollection 2014.

Efficacy of Different Sampling Methods of Sand Flies (Diptera: Psychodidae) in
Endemic Focus of Cutaneous Leishmaniasis in Kashan District, Isfahan Province,
Iran.

Hesam-Mohammadi M(1), Rassi Y(1), Abai MR(1), Akhavan AA(1), Karimi F(1),
Rafizadeh S(2), Sanei-Dehkordi A(1), Sharafkhah M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Ministry of Health and
Medical Education, Tehran, Iran. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to evaluate and compare the efficiency and
practicality of seven trapping methods for adult phlebotominae sand flies. The
results of this investigation provide information to determine the species
composition and nocturnal activity pattern of different sand fly species.
METHODS: The study was carried out in both plain region (about 5km far from
northeast) and mountainous region (about 40km far from southwest of Kashan City).
Seven traps were selected as sampling methods and sand flies were collected
during 5 interval times starting July to September 2011 and from 8:00PM to 6:00AM
in outdoors habitats. The traps include: sticky traps (4 papers for 2 hours),
Disney trap, Malaise, CDC and CO2 light traps, Shannon traps (black and white
nets) and animal-baited trap.
RESULTS: A total of 1445 sand flies belonging to 15 species of Phlebotomus spp.
and five of Sergentomyia spp. were collected. Females and males comprised 44.91% 
and 55.09% of catches, respectively. Of the collected specimens, Se. sintoni was 
found to be the most prevalent (37.86%) species, while Ph. papatasi, accounted
for 31.76% of the sand flies.
CONCLUSION: Disney trap and sticky traps exhibited the most productivity than
other traps. In addition, in terms of the efficiency of sampling method, these
two trapping methods appeared to be the most productive for both estimating the
number of sand flies and the species composition in the study area.

PMCID: PMC4478427
PMID: 26114129  [PubMed]


85. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):147-55. eCollection 2014.

Chemical Composition, Larvicidal and Repellency Properties of Cionura erecta (L.)
Griseb. Against Malaria Vector, Anopheles stephensi Liston (Diptera: Culicidae).

Mozaffari E(1), Abai MR(1), Khanavi M(2), Vatandoost H(1), Sedaghat MM(1),
Moridnia A(1), Saber-Navaei M(2), Sanei-Dehkordi A(1), Rafi F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of
Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Application of plant derivatives have been suggested as alternative
sources for mosquito control.
METHODS: The root essential oil and methanol extract of Cionura erecta (L.)
Griseb was tested under laboratory conditions for larvicidal and skin repelleny
activities against Anopheles stephensi. The chemical compositions of essential
oils were analyzed using gas chromatography- mass spectrometry.
RESULTS: Among the five concentrations tested, the 320 ppm of essential oil and
1280 ppm of methanolic extract had the most toxic effects yielding 100%
mortality. The LC50 values of C. erecta for both essential oil and methanolic
extract were 77.30 and 250.38 ppm, respectively. A total of 19 compounds were
identified in essential oil of root. The major components were detected in root
essential oil including Cedren-9-one (7.89%), alpha cadinol (5.67%), eugenol
(4.02%) and alpha muurolene (3.58%). The protection time of 50% solution of
essential oil against bites of An. stephensi was 2.28 hour on white rabbit and
the ED50 and ED90 values of the essential oil were 10.12 and 23.01 ppm
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that C. erecta oil has a potential source as
larvicidal and repellency properties against An.stephensi.

PMCID: PMC4478426
PMID: 26114128  [PubMed]


86. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):139-46. eCollection 2014.

Molecular Survey on Detection of Leishmania Infection in Rodent Reservoirs in
Jahrom District, Southern Iran.

Davami MH(1), Motazedian MH(2), Kalantari M(3), Asgari Q(2), Mohammadpour I(2),
Sotoodeh-Jahromi A(1), Solhjoo K(1), Pourahmad M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, School of Medicine, Jahrom University of
Medical Sciences, Jahrom, Iran. (2)Department of Parasitology and Mycology,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. (3)Department of Public
Health, Mamasani Paramedical School, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran. (4)Department of Internal Medicine, Jahrom University of Medical
Sciences, Jahrom, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Zoonotic Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (ZCL) is endemic in many parts of
Iran. Recently its incidence is considerable in different parts of Jahrom
district, in Fars Province, southern Iran. The aims of our study were to
investigate the prevalence of leishmania infection, and identify and characterize
the Leishmania species present, among the rodents by molecular methods in a new
endemic focus of ZCL, in an urban and rural area of the Jahrom district, Fars
Province, southern Iran.
METHODS: From May to November 2010), 55 rodents in four regions of Jahrom focus
were caught and checked for leishmania infection by the microscopical examination
of liver, spleen, ears, and footpads' smears.
RESULTS: Overall 18 Meriones persicus, 15 Tatera indica, 14 Mus musculus, and 8
Rattus rattus were caught. Totally, four (16.5%) and two (13.3%) of the Me.
persicus and Ta. indica, but only one of Mu. musculus and Ra. rattus were found
smear-positive for leishmania amastigotes, respectively. In the nested-PCR assay 
8 (14.6%) smears were found positive for Leishmania major, none was found
positive for any other Leishmania species. Sequencing based detection of
Leishmania confirmed the microscopic and PCR findings. All positive specimens
were shown 95-96% similarity with L. major Friedlin.
CONCLUSION: Tatera indica and Me. persicus are incriminated as the main
'reservoir' hosts of L. major in the rural area of Jahrom, moreover, Mu. musculus
and Ra. rattus have the minor but remarkable role in the maintenance of the
disease in the urban regions of Jahrom focus.

PMCID: PMC4478425
PMID: 26114127  [PubMed]


87. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):132-8. eCollection 2014.

Seroepidemiologic Survey of Canine Visceral Leishmaniasis in Tehran and Alborz
Provinces of Iran.

Malmasi A(1), Janitabar S(1), Mohebali M(2), Akhoundi B(2), Maazi N(1), Aramoon
M(1), Khorrami N(1), Seifi HA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Tehran, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Parasitology and Mycology, School of
Public Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Department
of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ferdowsi University of
Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.

BACKGROUND: A two year seroepidemiological study was designed to find out the
seroprevalence and risk factors of canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) among
stray and owned dogs in Tehran and Alborz Provinces of Iran.
METHODS: Blood samples of 602 dogs living in 11 counties of Tehran and Alborz
Provinces were taken by venipuncture in 2008-2010. After separation of blood
sera, anti-leishmanial antibodies were detected by direct agglutination test
(DAT).
RESULTS: Overall, of the 408 and 194 serum samples collected randomly from dogs
in 11 localities in Tehran and Alborz Provinces, 18/408 (4.41%) and 12/194
(6.18%) respectively were found positive. Among the localities, Shemiran in
Tehran Province and Karaj In Alborz Province had the highest prevalence rates. No
statistically significant differences were found between sex and living place but
there was significant difference between living status (owned or stray) and CVL
infection of dogs in Alborz Province (P= 0.018). The highest seroprevalence
(7.5%) was found in dogs aged 3 to 5 years old. Only 20% of the seropositive dogs
were symptomatic.
CONCLUSION: Concerning possible human infections in Tehran and Alborz Provinces, 
both symptomatic and asymptomatic seropositive dogs should be considered as a
risk.

PMCID: PMC4478424
PMID: 26114126  [PubMed]


88. J Arthropod Borne Dis. 2014 Apr 9;8(2):124-31. eCollection 2014.

A Review of Myiasis in Iran and a New Nosocomial Case from Tehran, Iran.

Alizadeh M(1), Mowlavi G(2), Kargar F(3), Nateghpour M(2), Akbarzadeh K(4),
Hajenorouzali-Tehrani M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Baharloo Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Parasitology and Mycology, School of Public Health,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Shahid Rajaei Heart
Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran. (4)Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, School of Public
Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (5)Department of
Pediatric Dentistry, Torabinejad Dental Research Center, School of Dentistry,
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Due to various climatic conditions in different parts of Iran,
presenting of various kinds of human myiasis is expected. Despite of a few case
series, most papers related to myiasis are case reports originated from various
parts of Iran. This study discusses on different clinical features of myiasis in 
Iran and description of one case from Tehran as a representative to nosocomial
infection in Iran.
METHODS: The information needed for this descriptive study was derived mainly
from the digital library of Tehran University of Medical Sciences. The larvae
have been identified with observing on posterior spiracles, spines of their body 
and anal tubercles.
RESULTS: Total number of reported myiasis cases from Iran is 77 which can be
categorized clinically as furuncular, wound, ophthalmic, auricular,
nasopharyngeal, oral, intestinal and genitourinary. Based on parasitological
features, all myiasis agents in Iran are belonging to Calliphoridae,
Sarcophagidae, Oestridae and Syrphidae flies. The case which is reporting in this
paper can be mentioned as representative of nosocomial myiasis which it seems to 
be underreported because of some medicolegal reasons.
CONCLUSION: Low number of investigations on various aspects of human myiasis, as 
well as incuriosity to report of the cases in disease reporting system of health 
minister, made the myiasis as a neglected disease.

PMCID: PMC4478423
PMID: 26114125  [PubMed]


89. Int J Spine Surg. 2015 Jun 1;9:21. doi: 10.14444/2021. eCollection 2015.

Fellowship and Practice Composition Affect Surgical Decision Making in Patients
with Adult Degenerative Scoliosis: Spinal Deformity versus Degenerative Spinal
Surgeons.

Protopsaltis T(1), Patel A(2), Yoo A(1), Lonner B(1), Bendo JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, NY, USA. (2)SUNY Downstate Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: For the Adult Degenerative Scoliosis (ADS) patient with
radiculopathy, there is no clear data in the literature to guide the spine
surgeon's decision making in choosing between limited decompression alone, short 
segment fusion, or longer arthrodesis of the deformity. This study investigates
the differences in operative planning, for patients with ADS and radiculopathy,
between two groups of spine surgeons based on fellowship experience and practice 
composition.
METHODS: Six Degenerative Spine surgeons (Group 1) and 6 Spinal Deformity
surgeons (Group 2) were shown 7 cases of patients with ADS and radiculopathy.
Surgeons completed a questionnaire detailing their planned operative intervention
including the number of fusion levels, if any, approach, choice of bone graft,
and interbody device. Pearson Correlation was used to investigate the association
between fellowship training, practice composition, number of levels fused, and
other variables. Intraclass correlation (ICC) analysis was used to investigate
the internal consistency among the groups.
RESULTS: There was a direct correlation between fellowship deformity experience
and practice composition (r=0.75, p<0.01), and between deformity practice
composition and the number of planned fusion levels (r=0.90, p<0.001). Group 1
surgeons fused a mean 3.7 vertebral levels (range 0-6.7), while Group 2 surgeons 
fused a mean 10.8 levels (range 4-16.5). Group 2 surgeons fused a significantly
greater number of levels for each case than degenerative surgeons on paired
student t-test (p=0.002). Group 1 surgeons chose decompression alone more
commonly than deformity surgeons (p<0.05). Group 2 surgeons had significantly
higher group consistency by ICC analysis (p=0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Fellowship and practice composition influence the physician's
surgical planning in ADS. There is a lack of standardized treatment paradigms for
the management of radiculopathy in patients with ADS.

PMCID: PMC4480058
PMID: 26114090  [PubMed]


90. Int J Spine Surg. 2015 Jun 1;9:20. doi: 10.14444/2020. eCollection 2015.

Spinous Process splitting Laminectomy: Clinical outcome and Radiological analysis
of extent of decompression.

Lee S(1), Srikantha U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Barunsesang Hospital, Seongnam-si, Republic of
Korea. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, M S Ramaiah Medical Teaching Hospital,
Bangalore, India.

INTRODUCTION: Spinous process splitting laminectomy (SPSL) is a useful technique 
in achieving adequate decompression for lumbar canal stenosis, has the advantage 
of simultaneously decompressing multiple levels and minimising injury to the
paraspinal muscles. Some concern has been expressed over the efficacy of this
technique in decompressing lateral recesses. This study was undertaken to assess 
the clinical outcome of SPSL technique and radiologically assess the extent of
decompression.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-nine consecutive patients treated by SPSL for
degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis were methodically assessed for demographic
data, clinical findings, Pre- and post-op VAS, JOA scores and spinal canal
dimensions on imaging. Surgical technique for SPSL is described.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 66.9 yrs. The mean follow-up was 7.3
months. The mean pre- and post-operative VAS scores were 7.8 and 3.7,
respectively. The mean pre- and post-operative JOA scores were 6.3 and 11.2,
respectively. The mean JOA recovery rate was 57.3%. 77% of the patients were in
the 'good' or 'excellent' McNab's grades at follow-up. Radiologic results were
assessed separately at the 118 levels decompressed by the SPSL technique. The
ratio increase for the spinal canal dimensions on post-operative images were as
follows - Interfacet distance-116.6%; Effective AP distance-67.6%; Right lateral 
recess depth-165.1%; Right lateral recess angle-145.5%; Left lateral recess
depth-149.3%; Left lateral recess angle-133.6%; Cross-sectional spinal canal
area-163.8%. There was no worsening of pre-existing degenerative listhesis or
scoliosis in any case.
CONCLUSION: SPSL achieves effective central and lateral recess decompression, at 
the same time minimising injury to the paraspinal muscles thus reducing
post-operative pain and aiding in quicker mobilisation and recovery. It is an
effective tool to treat multiple level spinal stenosis, especially in elderly
patients who have pre-existing spinal deformities which can precipitate into
frank instability after conventional procedures.

PMCID: PMC4480052
PMID: 26114089  [PubMed]


91. Int J Spine Surg. 2015 May 26;9:19. doi: 10.14444/2019. eCollection 2015.

Ninety-day readmissions after degenerative cervical spine surgery: A
single-center administrative database study.

Akamnonu C(1), Cheriyan T(1), Goldstein JA(1), Errico TJ(1), Bendo JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Spine Surgery, Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York Langone
Medical Center, New York.

BACKGROUND: Unplanned hospital readmissions result in significant clinical and
financial burdens to patients and the healthcare system. Readmission rates and
causes have been investigated using large administrative databases which have
certain limitations in data reporting and coding. The objective of this study was
to provide a description of 90 day post-discharge readmissions following surgery 
for common degenerative cervical spine pathologies at a large-volume tertiary
hospital. The study also compared the readmission rates of patients who underwent
anterior- and posterior-approach procedures.
METHODS: The administrative records from a single-center, high-volume tertiary
institution were queried using ICD-9 codes for common cervical pathology over a
three year period to determine the rate and causes of readmissions within the 90 
days following the index surgery.
RESULTS: A total of 768 patients underwent degenerative cervical spine surgery
during the three year study period. Within 90 days of discharge, 24 (3.13%)
patients were readmitted; 16 (2.06%) readmissions were planned for lumbar
surgery; 8 (1.04%) readmissions were unplanned. 640 patients underwent procedures
involving an anterior approach and 128 patients underwent procedures involving a 
posterior approach. There were 14 (2.17%) planned readmissions in the anterior
group and 2 (1.5%) in the posterior group. The unplanned readmission rate was
0.63% (4 patients) and 3.13% (4 patients) in the anterior and posterior groups,
respectively. (p=0.0343).
CONCLUSION: The 90 day post-discharge unplanned readmission rate that followed
elective degenerative cervical spine surgery was 1.04%. The unplanned readmission
rate associated with posterior-approach procedures (3.13%) was significantly
higher than that of anterior-approach procedures (0.63%).
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV.

PMCID: PMC4480048
PMID: 26114088  [PubMed]


92. Int J Spine Surg. 2015 May 19;9:16. doi: 10.14444/2016. eCollection 2015.

Radiographic Comparison of Lateral Lumbar Interbody Fusion Versus Traditional
Fusion Approaches: Analysis of Sagittal Contour Change.

Sembrano JN(1), Yson SC(1), Horazdovsky RD(1), Santos ER(1), Polly DW Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.

BACKGROUND: Lateral approach to lumbar fusion has been gaining popularity in
recent years. With increasing awareness of the significance of sagittal balance
restoration in spinal surgery, it is important to investigate the potential of
this relatively new approach in correcting sagittal deformities in comparison to 
conventional approaches. The aim of this study was to evaluate sagittal contour
changes seen in lateral lumbar interbody fusion and compare them with
radiographic changes in traditional approaches to lumbar fusion.
METHODS: Lumbar fusion procedures from January 2008 to December 2009 were
reviewed. Four approaches were compared: anterior lumbar interbody fusion (ALIF),
lateral lumbar interbody fusion (LLIF), transforaminal interbody fusion (TLIF)
and posterior spinal fusion (PSF). Standing pre-operative and 6-week
post-operative radiographs were measured in terms of operative level, suprajacent
and subjacent level, and regional lumbar lordosis (L1-S1) as well as operative
level anterior (ADH) and posterior disc heights (PDH). T-test was used to analyze
differences between and within different approaches (α=0.05).
RESULTS: A total of 147 patients underwent lumbar fusion at 212 levels. Mean
operative level segmental lordosis change after each procedure is as follows:
ALIF 3.8 ± 6.6° (p < 0.01); LLIF 3.2 ± 3.6° (p<0.01); TLIF 1.9 ± 3.9° (p<0.01);
and PSF 0.7 ± 2.9° (p =0.13). Overall lumbar lordosis change after each procedure
is as follows: ALIF 4.2 ± 5.8° (p < 0.01); LLIF 2.5 ± 4.1° (p<0.01); TLIF 2.1 ±
6.0 (p = 0.02); PSF -0.5 ± 6.2° (p = 0.66). There were no significant changes in 
the supradjcent and subjacent level lordosis in all approaches except in ALIF
where a significant decrease in supradjecent level lordosis was seen. Mean ADH
and PDH significantly increased for all approaches except in PSF where PDH
decreased post-operatively.
CONCLUSION: LLIF has the ability to improve sagittal contour as well as other
interbody approaches and is superior to posterioronly approach in disc height
restoration. However, ALIF provides the greatest amount of segmental and overall 
lumbar lordosis correction.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: This is a Level III study.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Regional lordosis correction may be effectively achieved with
LLIF. This approach is a good addition to a surgeon's armamentarium in
maintenance or restoration of normal lumbar sagittal alignment.

PMCID: PMC4480050
PMID: 26114085  [PubMed]


93. Beilstein J Nanotechnol. 2015 May 29;6:1229-36. doi: 10.3762/bjnano.6.126.
eCollection 2015.

Nano-contact microscopy of supracrystals.

Sweetman A(1), Goubet N(2), Lekkas I(1), Pileni MP(3), Moriarty P(1).

Author information: 
(1)The School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Nottingham, Nottingham,
NG7 2RD, U.K. (2)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR 8233, Monaris,
F-75005, Paris, France ; CNRS, UMR 8233, Monaris, F-75005, Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR 8233, Monaris, F-75005, Paris,
France ; CNRS, UMR 8233, Monaris, F-75005, Paris, France ; CEA/IRAMIS, CEA
Saclay, 91191, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

BACKGROUND: Highly ordered three-dimensional colloidal crystals (supracrystals)
comprised of 7.4 nm diameter Au nanocrystals (with a 5% size dispersion) have
been imaged and analysed using a combination of scanning tunnelling microscopy
and dynamic force microscopy.
RESULTS: By exploring the evolution of both the force and tunnel current with
respect to tip-sample separation, we arrive at the surprising finding that single
nanocrystal resolution is readily obtained in tunnelling microscopy images
acquired more than 1 nm into the repulsive (i.e., positive force) regime of the
probe-nanocrystal interaction potential. Constant height force microscopy has
been used to map tip-sample interactions in this regime, revealing
inhomogeneities which arise from the convolution of the tip structure with the
ligand distribution at the nanocrystal surface.
CONCLUSION: Our combined STM-AFM measurements show that the contrast mechanism
underpinning high resolution imaging of nanoparticle supracrystals involves a
form of nanoscale contact imaging, rather than the through-vacuum tunnelling
which underpins traditional tunnelling microscopy and spectroscopy.

PMCID: PMC4462851
PMID: 26114081  [PubMed]


94. Lupus Sci Med. 2015 Jun 18;2(1):e000063. doi: 10.1136/lupus-2014-000063.
eCollection 2015.

BAFF (B cell activating factor) transcript level in peripheral blood of patients 
with SLE is associated with same-day disease activity as well as global activity 
over the next year.

Zollars E(1), Bienkowska J(2), Czerkowicz J(2), Allaire N(2), Ranger AM(2),
Magder L(3), Petri M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology , Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine ,
Baltimore, Maryland , USA. (2)Biogen Idec , Cambridge, Massachusetts , USA.
(3)Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Maryland , Baltimore, Maryland ,
USA.

OBJECTIVES: Quantitating gene expression is a potential method of developing
biomarkers in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Because of the known
pathological role of B cell activating factor (BAFF) in SLE, we explored the
association between BAFF gene expression and clinical activity in SLE.
METHODS: A total of 275 patients with SLE completed this phase of a prospective
observational study. At entry into the study, the BAFF gene expression levels
were determined in peripheral blood RNA. Serum concentration of BAFF protein was 
also measured. We then determined clinical associations with SLE disease history,
SLE activity on the same day and SLE activity over the course of the next year.
RESULTS: Elevated BAFF gene expression was associated with a history of more
leucopenia and serologically with more autoantibodies (anti-dsDNA, anti-Sm,
anti-Ro, anti-La and anti-RNP) and low complement. Patients with higher amounts
of BAFF transcript had higher measured levels of clinical disease activity.
Initial high levels of BAFF gene expression also predicted increased disease
activity over the course of the next year. In contrast, serum concentration of
BAFF protein was not strongly associated with same-day global disease activity or
with future disease activity.
CONCLUSIONS: BAFF gene expression level is associated with clinical and
serological SLE activity on the same day and predictive of clinical activity over
the next year. BAFF gene expression is a better measure and predictor of SLE
disease activity than the serum BAFF protein level.

PMCID: PMC4477150
PMID: 26113988  [PubMed]


95. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care. 2015 Jun 16;3(1):e000111. doi:
10.1136/bmjdrc-2015-000111. eCollection 2015.

Impact of an individualized type 2 diabetes education program on clinical
outcomes during Ramadan.

McEwen LN(1), Ibrahim M(2), Ali NM(3), Assaad-Khalil SH(4), Tantawi HR(5), Nasr
G(3), Mohammadmoradi S(6), Misha'l AA(7), Annabi FA(7), Ba-Essa EM(8), Bahijri
SM(9), Tuomilehto J(10), Jaber LA(11), Herman WH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine , University of Michigan , Ann Arbor, Michigan
, USA. (2)EDC, Center for Diabetes Education , McDonough, GA , USA. (3)School of 
Medicine, Suez Canal University , Ismailia , Egypt. (4)Alexandria Faculty of
Medicine , Alexandria University , Alexandria , Egypt. (5)Ain Shams University , 
Cairo , Egypt. (6)Department of Pharmacology and Nutritional Sciences ,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky , USA. (7)Isalmic Hospital , Amman , 
Jordan. (8)Dammam Medical Complex , Dammam , Saudi Arabia. (9)Saudi Diabetes
Research Group (SDRG) , King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz
University , Jeddah , Saudi Arabia. (10)University of Helsinki , Helsinki ,
Finland. (11)Wayne State University , Detroit, Michigan , USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if individualized education before Ramadan results in a
safer fast for people with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Patients with type 2 diabetes who received care from participating
clinics in Egypt, Iran, Jordan and Saudi Arabia and intended to fast during
Ramadan 2014 were prospectively studied. Twelve clinics participated.
Individualized education addressed meal planning, physical activity, blood
glucose monitoring and acute metabolic complications and when deemed necessary,
provided an individualized diabetes treatment plan.
RESULTS: 774 people met study criteria, 515 received individualized education and
259 received usual care. Those who received individualized education were more
likely to modify their diabetes treatment plan during Ramadan (97% vs 88%,
p<0.0001), to perform self-monitoring of blood glucose at least twice daily
during Ramadan (70% vs 51%, p<0.0001), and to have improved knowledge about
hypoglycemic signs and symptoms (p=0.0007). Those who received individualized
education also reduced their body mass index (-1.1±2.4 kg/m(2) vs
-0.2±1.7 kg/m(2), p<0.0001) and glycated haemoglobin (-0.7±1.1% vs -0.1±1.3%,
p<0.0001) during Ramadan compared those who received usual care. There were more 
mild (77% vs 67%, p=0.0031) and moderate (38% vs 19%, p<0.0001) hypoglycemic
events reported by participants who received individualized education than those 
who received usual care, but fewer reported severe hypoglycemic events during
Ramadan (23% vs 34%, p=0.0017).
CONCLUSIONS: This individualized education and diabetes treatment program helped 
patients with type 2 diabetes lose weight, improve glycemic control and achieve a
safer fast during Ramadan.

PMCID: PMC4477147
PMID: 26113984  [PubMed]


96. BMJ Open Respir Res. 2015 Jun 13;2(1):e000074. doi: 10.1136/bmjresp-2014-000074. 
eCollection 2015.

Association between prehospital vitamin D status and incident acute respiratory
failure in critically ill patients: a retrospective cohort study.

Thickett DR(1), Moromizato T(2), Litonjua AA(3), Amrein K(4), Quraishi SA(5),
Lee-Sarwar KA(6), Mogensen KM(7), Purtle SW(8), Gibbons FK(9), Camargo CA Jr(10),
Giovannucci E(11), Christopher KB(12).

Author information: 
(1)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medical and Dental
Sciences, University of Birmingham , Birmingham , UK. (2)Department of Medicine ,
Hokubu Prefectural Hospital , Nago City , Japan. (3)Channing Division of Network 
Medicine and Pulmonary and Critical Care Division, Department of Medicine ,
Brigham and Women's Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts , USA. (4)Division of
Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine , Medical
University of Graz , Graz , Austria. (5)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care
and Pain Medicine , Massachusetts General Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts , USA.
(6)Department of Medicine , Brigham and Women's Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts 
, USA. (7)Department of Nutrition , Brigham and Women's Hospital , Boston,
Massachusetts , USA. (8)Division of Pulmonary Sciences and Critical Care Medicine
, University of Colorado , Denver, Colorado , USA. (9)Division of Pulmonary and
Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine , Massachusetts General Hospital ,
Boston, Massachusetts , USA. (10)Department of Emergency Medicine , Massachusetts
General Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts , USA. (11)Departments of Nutrition and 
Epidemiology , Harvard School of Public Health , Boston, Massachusetts , USA.
(12)The Nathan E. Hellman Memorial Laboratory, Renal Division , Brigham and
Women's Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts , USA.

OBJECTIVE: We hypothesise that low 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels before
hospitalisation are associated with increased risk of acute respiratory failure.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Medical and Surgical Intensive care units of two Boston teaching
hospitals.
PATIENTS: 1985 critically ill adults admitted between 1998 and 2011.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The exposure of interest was prehospital serum
25(OH)D categorised as ≤10 ng/mL, 11-19.9 ng/mL, 20-29.9 ng/mL and ≥30 ng/mL. The
primary outcome was acute respiratory failure excluding congestive heart failure 
determined by International Classification of Diseases Ninth Edition (ICD-9)
coding and validated against the Berlin Definition of acute respiratory sistress 
syndrome. Association between 25(OH)D and acute respiratory failure was assessed 
using logistic regression, while adjusting for age, race, sex, Deyo-Charlson
Index and patient type (medical vs surgical). In the cohort, the mean age was
63 years, 45% were male and 80% were white; 25(OH)D was ≤10 ng/mL in 8% of
patients, 11-19.9 ng/mL in 24%, 20-29.9 ng/mL in 24% and ≥30 ng/mL in 44% of
patients. Eighteen per cent (n=351) were diagnosed with acute respiratory
failure. Compared to patients with 25(OH)D ≥30 ng/mL, patients with lower 25(OH)D
levels had significantly higher adjusted odds of acute respiratory failure
(≤10 ng/mL, OR=1.84 (95% CI 1.22 to 2.77); 11-19.9 ng/mL, OR=1.60 (95% CI 1.19 to
2.15); 20-29.9 ng/mL, OR=1.37 (95% CI 1.01 to 1.86)).
CONCLUSIONS: Prehospital 25(OH)D was associated with the risk of acute
respiratory failure in our critically ill patient cohort.

PMCID: PMC4477148
PMID: 26113982  [PubMed]


97. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab Case Rep. 2015;2015:150041. doi: 10.1530/EDM-15-0041.
Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Adrenal insufficiency in a child following unilateral excision of a dual-hormone 
secreting phaeochromocytoma.

Sjoeholm A(1), Li C(1), Leem C(1), Lee A(1), Stack MP(2), Hofman PL(3), Wheeler
BJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, University of Otago , Dunedin
School of Medicine, PO Box 56, Dunedin 9054 , New Zealand. (2)Paediatric
Nephrology, Starship Children's Hospital , Auckland , New Zealand. (3)Liggins
Institute, University of Auckland , Auckland , New Zealand. (4)Department of
Women's and Children's Health, University of Otago , Dunedin School of Medicine, 
PO Box 56, Dunedin 9054 , New Zealand ; Paediatric Endocrinology, Southern
District Health Board , Dunedin , New Zealand.

Phaeochromocytomas are a rare clinical entity, with dual hormone-secreting
lesions particularly uncommon, seen in <1%. ACTH is the most common hormone
co-produced, and is potentially lethal if not diagnosed. We present the case of a
previously well 10-year-old boy, who presented acutely with a hypertensive crisis
and was found to have a unilateral, non-syndromic phaeochromocytoma. Medical
stabilization of his hypertension was challenging, and took 3 weeks to achieve,
before proceeding to unilateral adrenalectomy. Post-operatively the child
experienced severe fatigue and was subsequently confirmed to have adrenal
insufficiency. He improved markedly with hydrocortisone replacement therapy,
which is ongoing 6 months post-operatively. In retrospect this likely represents 
unrecognized, sub-clinical ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome secondary to an
ACTH/or precursor dual-hormone secreting phaeochromocytoma. At follow-up, his
hypertension had resolved, there was no biochemical evidence of recurrence of the
phaeochromocytoma, and genetic analysis was indicative of a sporadic
lesion.LEARNING POINTS: Dual hormone secreting phaeochromocytomas with ACTH/or a 
precursor may cause secondary adrenal insufficiency following surgical
removal.The concurrent features of Cushing's syndrome can be mild and easily
overlooked presenting diagnostic and management pitfalls.As concomitant syndromes
of hormone excess are rare in phaeochromocytomas; the diagnosis requires a high
index of suspicion.Serial/diurnal cortisol levels, ACTH measurement +/- low dose 
dexamethasone suppression (when clinically stable, appropriate adrenergic
blockade in place, and well supervised), can all be considered as needed.

PMCID: PMC4477238
PMID: 26113981  [PubMed]


98. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab Case Rep. 2015;2015:150032. doi: 10.1530/EDM-15-0032.
Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors with transformation to insulinoma: an unusual
presentation of a rare disease.

Nahmias A(1), Grozinsky-Glasberg S(1), Salmon A(2), Gross DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroendocrine Tumor Unit, Endocrinology and Metabolism Service,
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center , Jerusalem , Israel. (2)Department of 
Oncology, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Kiryat Hadassah , Jerusalem,
POB 12000 , 91120, Israel.

Approximately 35% of the pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs) are functional,
the most common of which is an insulinoma. Rarely can initially nonfunctioning
tumor undergo biological transformation to a hormone-secreting tumor with
subsequent changes in the clinical picture. We present here three unique patients
with long-standing pNETs who developed life-threatening hyperinsulinemic
hypoglycemia along with tumor progression. In two of the patients, everolimus
(Afinitor) was administered in an attempt to control both tumor growth and
hypoglycemia. In two cases everolimus therapy resulted in the abolishment of
hypoglycemia and induced significant tumor regression; however these beneficial
responses were transient. These cases highlight the exceptional ability of pNETs 
to change biological behavior in parallel with disease progression. Our
experience concurs with recently published studies demonstrating the utility of
everolimus for the control of both hypoglycemia and tumor progression.LEARNING
POINTS: Nonfunctional pNET can gain new features such as insulin secretion with
related morbidity.Gain of function in a previously nonfunctional pNET signifies
tumor progression and is usually associated with poor prognosis.Everolimus proved
to be a viable treatment for hypoglycemia in insulinoma patients and was also
proven highly effective in the patients presented here.As disease progresses, the
effect of everolimus on hypoglycemia wanes. We report for the first time the
development of hypoglycemia during everolimus treatment.

PMCID: PMC4477235
PMID: 26113980  [PubMed]


99. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab Case Rep. 2015;2015:150007. doi: 10.1530/EDM-15-0007.
Epub 2015 Jun 1.

TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma: benefits of pre-operative octreotide.

Wallace IR(1), Healy E(2), Cooke RS(3), Ellis PK(4), Harper R(5), Hunter SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Regional Centre for Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Victoria Hospital ,
Grosvenor Road, Belfast, BT12 6BA , UK. (2)Department of Neuropathology, Royal
Victoria Hospital , Grosvenor Road, Belfast, BT12 6BA , UK. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, Royal Victoria Hospital , Grosvenor Road, Belfast, BT12 6BA , UK.
(4)Department of Radiology, Royal Victoria Hospital , Grosvenor Road, Belfast,
BT12 6BA , UK. (5)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Ulster Hospital ,
Dundonald, BT16 1RH , UK.

TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas are rare and the optimal investigation and
management is uncertain. We describe a case of a 43 year-old woman with a
TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma, highlighting diagnostic testing and our use,
pre-operatively of somatostatin analogue therapy, which induced biochemical
euthyroidism and a reduction in tumour size.LEARNING POINTS: The differential
diagnosis of the syndrome of inappropriate TSH secretion is non-thyroidal
illness, medications, assay interference due to heterophilic antibodies, thyroid 
hormone resistance and TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma.TRH stimulation test and
triiodothyronine suppression test assist in differentiating thyroid hormone
resistance and TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma.Somatostatin analogue therapy can 
induce biochemical euthyroidism and reduce tumour size.

PMCID: PMC4477234
PMID: 26113979  [PubMed]


100. J Immunother Cancer. 2015 Jun 25;3:29. doi: 10.1186/s40425-015-0076-y.
eCollection 2015.

Immune monitoring technology primer: immunosequencing.

Kirsch I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Adaptive Biotechnologies, Seattle, WA USA.

BACKGROUND: Profiling of the immune receptor repertoire is becoming increasingly 
relevant to the understanding and clinical management of cancer, autoimmunity,
aging, and infectious disease.
FINDINGS: A platform technology is described that provides comprehensive immune
receptor profiling.
CONCLUSION: Immunosequencing is a platform technology that allows the
enumeration, specification and quantification of each and every B-and/or T-cell
in any biologic sample of interest. It is based on bias-controlled multiplex PCR 
and high throughput sequencing and is highly accurate, standardized, and
sensitive.

PMCID: PMC4480450
PMID: 26113978  [PubMed]


101. Microbiome. 2015 Jun 25;3:27. doi: 10.1186/s40168-015-0090-9. eCollection 2015.

Gut resistome development in healthy twin pairs in the first year of life.

Moore AM(1), Ahmadi S(2), Patel S(2), Gibson MK(3), Wang B(2), Ndao MI(4), Deych 
E(5), Shannon W(5), Tarr PI(6), Warner BB(4), Dantas G(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Washington University in St Louis School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110 USA ; Center for Genome
Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in St. Louis School of
Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63108 USA. (2)Department of
Pathology and Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, 
660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110 USA ; Center for Genome Sciences and
Systems Biology, Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, 4444
Forest Park Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63108 USA. (3)Center for Genome Sciences and
Systems Biology, Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, 4444
Forest Park Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63108 USA. (4)Department of Pediatrics,
Washington University in St Louis School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St.
Louis, MO 63110 USA. (5)Department of Biostatistics, Washington University in St.
Louis School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110 USA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Washington University in St Louis School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110 USA ; Department of Molecular
Microbiology, Washington University in St. School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid
Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110 USA. (7)Department of Pathology and Immunology,
Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. 
Louis, MO 63110 USA ; Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington 
University in St. Louis School of Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Boulevard, St.
Louis, MO 63108 USA ; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University
in St. Louis, One Brookings Drive, St. Louis, MO 63130 USA.

BACKGROUND: The early life of the human host marks a critically important time
for establishment of the gut microbial community, yet the developmental
trajectory of gut community-encoded resistance genes (resistome) is unknown. We
present a longitudinal study of the fecal antibiotic resistome of healthy
amoxicillin-exposed and antibiotic-naive twins and their mothers during the first
year of life.
RESULTS: We extracted metagenomic DNA (mgDNA) from fecal samples collected from
three healthy twin pairs at three timepoints (1 or 2 months, 6 or 7 months, and
11 months) and from their mothers (collected at delivery). The mgDNA was used to 
construct metagenomic expression libraries in an Escherichia coli host. These
libraries were screened for antibiotic resistance, and functionally selected
resistance genes were sequenced and annotated. A diverse fecal resistome distinct
from the maternal resistome was apparent by 2 months of age, and infants' fecal
resistomes included resistance to clinically important broad-spectrum beta-lactam
antibiotics (e.g., piperacillin-tazobactam, aztreonam, cefepime) not found in
their mothers. Dissemination of resistance genes among members of a given family 
was positively correlated with sharing of those same resistance genes between
unrelated families, potentially identifying within-family sharing as a marker of 
resistance genes emerging in the human community at large. Finally, we found a
distinct developmental trajectory for a community-encoded function:
chloramphenicol resistance. All study subjects at all timepoints harbored
chloramphenicol resistance determinants, but multidrug efflux pumps (rarely found
in mothers) were the primary effectors of chloramphenicol resistance in young
infants. Chloramphenicol acetyltransferases were more common in mothers than in
infants and were found in nearly all the infants at later timepoints.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that healthy 1-2-month-old infants' gut microbes
harbor clinically relevant resistance genes distinct from those of their mothers,
and that family-specific shared environmental factors early in life shape
resistome development.

PMCID: PMC4480905
PMID: 26113976  [PubMed]


102. Microbiome. 2015 Jun 19;3:25. doi: 10.1186/s40168-015-0088-3. eCollection 2015.

Athletic equipment microbiota are shaped by interactions with human skin.

Wood M(1), Gibbons SM(2), Lax S(3), Eshoo-Anton TW(4), Owens SM(5), Kennedy S(6),
Gilbert JA(7), Hampton-Marcell JT(5).

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University, Evanston, IL USA ; Biosciences Division, Argonne
National Laboratory, Lemont, IL USA. (2)Biosciences Division, Argonne National
Laboratory, Lemont, IL USA ; Graduate Program in Biophysical Sciences, University
of Chicago, Chicago, IL USA. (3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL USA. (4)Biosciences Division, Argonne National
Laboratory, Lemont, IL USA. (5)Biosciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory,
Lemont, IL USA ; Computation Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL USA.
(6)MO BIO Laboratories Inc, Carlsbad, CA USA. (7)Biosciences Division, Argonne
National Laboratory, Lemont, IL USA ; Graduate Program in Biophysical Sciences,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL USA ; Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL USA ; Department of Surgery,
University of Chicago, 5841 South Maryland Avenue, MC 5029, Chicago, IL 60637 USA
; Marine Biological Laboratory, 7 MBL Street, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA ; College 
of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058
China.

BACKGROUND: Americans spend the vast majority of their lives in built
environments. Even traditionally outdoor pursuits, such as exercising, are often 
now performed indoors. Bacteria that colonize these indoor ecosystems are
primarily derived from the human microbiome. The modes of human interaction with 
indoor surfaces and the physical conditions associated with each surface type
determine the steady-state ecology of the microbial community.
RESULTS: Bacterial assemblages associated with different surfaces in three
athletic facilities, including floors, mats, benches, free weights, and
elliptical handles, were sampled every other hour (8 am to 6 pm) for 2 days.
Surface and equipment type had a stronger influence on bacterial community
composition than the facility in which they were housed. Surfaces that were
primarily in contact with human skin exhibited highly dynamic bacterial community
composition and non-random co-occurrence patterns, suggesting that different host
microbiomes-shaped by selective forces-were being deposited on these surfaces
through time. However, bacterial assemblages found on the floors and mats changed
less over time, and species co-occurrence patterns appeared random, suggesting
more neutral community assembly.
CONCLUSIONS: These longitudinal patterns highlight the dramatic turnover of
microbial communities on surfaces in regular contact with human skin. By
uncovering these longitudinal patterns, this study promotes a better
understanding of microbe-human interactions within the built environment.

PMCID: PMC4480904
PMID: 26113975  [PubMed]


103. Antimicrob Resist Infect Control. 2015 May 15;4:21. doi:
10.1186/s13756-015-0062-7. eCollection 2015.

Prevalence and antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of Salmonella isolates in
association with hygienic status from butcher shops in Gondar town, Ethiopia.

Garedew L(1), Hagos Z(2), Addis Z(2), Tesfaye R(3), Zegeye B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, St Paul's Hospital Millennium Medical College,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. (2)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Gondar,
Gondar, Ethiopia. (3)School of Biomedical and laboratory Sciences, University of 
Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Salmonella has been recognized as a major cause of food borne illness
associated with meat products worldwide. The wide spread of
antimicrobial-resistant Salmonella has been a serious global human and animal
health problem. The aims of this study were to estimate the prevalence and
antimicrobial susceptibility pattern of Salmonella isolates from butcher shops of
Gondar town, Ethiopia.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted from February to June, 2013 in
Gondar town. After receiving written consent from the study participants, raw
meat and swab samples from butcher shops' utensils and meat handlers were
collected and tested using standard bacteriological methods. The isolates were
identified using colony characteristics, Gram-reaction, biochemical reaction and 
sugar tests. Antimicrobial susceptibility test was performed using Kirby-Bauer
disc diffusion method. Check list was used to record general hygienic conditions 
and practices in the butcher shops. The data was entered and analyzed using SPSS 
version 20.0.
RESULTS: Butcher shop premises and utensils sanitation and personnel's hygiene
were poor. The overall prevalence of Salmonella was 17.3 %. Salmonella was
detected in 32 (35.6 %) meat samples, 13 (23.2 %) hand swabs, 5 (9.1 %) knife
swabs, and 3 (5.6 %) chopping board surface swabs. Of the total 53 Salmonella
isolates subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility test, 47 (88.7 %), 35 (62.3
%), 19 (35.8 %), 17 (32.1 %) and 16 (30.2 %) of them exhibited resistance to
Ampicillin, Amoxicillin, Nitrofuranthoin, Tetracycline, and
Sulfamethoxazole-Trimethoprime, respectively. Furthermore; 15 (28.3 %) of the
isolates were multidrug-resistant from which highest isolation was recorded from 
meat samples and 40 (75.5 %) isolates of Salmonella showed resistance to two or
more antimicrobial agents tested. Interestingly, all of the isolates were
susceptible to Gentamycin and Ceftriaxone.
CONCLUSION: The general sanitary condition of the butcher shops and utensils used
and personnel hygiene were not to the recommended standards. Contamination of
meat, knives, and meat handlers hand with Salmonella was found high. Furthermore;
multidrug-resistant Salmonella is circulating in the butchers' shop which is
strong enough to warrant the revision of butcher shops sanitation policy and
treatment regimen for infections implicated by Salmonella in the study area.
Further in-depth study including serotyping and antimicrobial resistant gene
identification is recommended.

PMCID: PMC4480883
PMID: 26113974  [PubMed]


104. Med Gas Res. 2015 May 29;5:8. doi: 10.1186/s13618-015-0029-z. eCollection 2015.

Pharmacokinetic analysis of the chronic administration of the inert gases Xe and 
Ar using a physiological based model.

Katz I(1), Murdock J(2), Palgen M(2), Pype J(2), Caillibotte G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical R&D, Air Liquide Santé International, Centre de Recherche
Paris-Saclay, 1, chemin de la Porte des Loges, BP126 - 78354 Jouy en Josas,
France ; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Lafayette College, Easton, PA
18042 USA. (2)Medical R&D, Air Liquide Santé International, Centre de Recherche
Paris-Saclay, 1, chemin de la Porte des Loges, BP126 - 78354 Jouy en Josas,
France.

BACKGROUND: New gas therapies using inert gases such as xenon and argon are being
studied, which would require chronically administered repeating doses. The
pharmacokinetics of this type of administration has not been addressed in the
literature.
METHODS: A physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) model for humans, pigs, 
mice, and rats has been developed to investigate the unique aspects of the
chronic administration of inert gas therapies. The absorption, distribution,
metabolism and excretion (ADME) models are as follows: absorption in all
compartments is assumed to be perfusion limited, no metabolism of the gases
occurs, and excretion is only the reverse process of absorption through the lungs
and exhaled.
RESULTS: The model has shown that there can be a residual dose, equivalent to
constant administration, for chronic repeated dosing of xenon in humans. However,
this is not necessarily the case for small animals used in pre-clinical studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of standard pharmacokinetics parameters such as area under
the curve would be more appropriate to assess the delivered dose of chronic gas
administration than the gas concentration in the delivery system that is
typically reported in the scientific literature because species and gas
differences can result in very different delivered doses.

PMCID: PMC4480577
PMID: 26113973  [PubMed]


105. Cell Biosci. 2015 Jun 25;5:35. doi: 10.1186/s13578-015-0025-y. eCollection 2015.

Co-administration with DNA encoding papillomavirus capsid proteins enhances the
antitumor effects generated by therapeutic HPV DNA vaccination.

Yang B(1), Yang A(1), Peng S(1), Pang X(2), Roden RB(3), Wu TC(4), Hung CF(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pathology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, CRBII 
Room 307, 1550 Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD 21231 USA. (2)Department of Oral
Pathology, College of Dentistry, Howard University, Washington, DC USA.
(3)Departments of Pathology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, CRBII 
Room 307, 1550 Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD 21231 USA ; Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA ; Oncology,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA. (4)Departments of
Pathology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, CRBII Room 307, 1550
Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD 21231 USA ; Obstetrics and Gynecology, Johns
Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA ; Molecular Microbiology and
Immunology, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA ; Oncology,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA. (5)Departments of
Pathology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, CRBII Room 307, 1550
Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD 21231 USA ; Oncology, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, MD USA.

BACKGROUND: DNA vaccines have emerged as attractive candidates for the control of
human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated malignancies. However, DNA vaccines suffer 
from limited immunogenicity and thus strategies to enhance DNA vaccine potency
are needed. We have previously demonstrated that for DNA vaccines encoding HPV-16
E7 antigen (CRT/E7) linkage with calreticulin (CRT) linked enhances both the
E7-specific CD8(+) T cell immune responses and antitumor effects against
E7-expressing tumors. In the current study, we aim to introduce an approach to
elicit potent CD4(+) T cell help for the enhancement of antigen-specific CD8(+) T
cell immune responses generated by CRT/E7 DNA vaccination by using
co-administration of a DNA vector expressing papillomavirus major and minor
capsid antigens, L1 and L2.
RESULT: We showed that co-administration of vectors containing codon-optimized
bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) L1 and L2 in combination with DNA vaccines
could elicit enhanced antigen-specific CD8(+) in both CRT/E7 and ovalbumin (OVA) 
antigenic systems. We also demonstrated that co-administration of vectors
expressing BPV-1 L1 and/or L2 DNA with CRT/E7 DNA led to the generation of
L1/L2-specific CD4(+) T cell immune responses and L1-specific neutralizing
antibodies. Furthermore, we showed that co-administration with DNA encoding BPV1 
L1 significantly enhances the therapeutic antitumor effects generated by CRT/E7
DNA vaccination. In addition, the observed enhancement of CD8(+) T cell immune
responses by DNA encoding L1 and L2 was also found to extend to HPV-16 L1/L2
system.
CONCLUSION: Our strategy elicits both potent neutralizing antibody and
therapeutic responses and may potentially be extended to other antigenic systems 
beyond papillomavirus for the control of infection and/or cancer.

PMCID: PMC4480891
PMID: 26113972  [PubMed]


106. Biol Sex Differ. 2015 Jun 25;6:11. doi: 10.1186/s13293-015-0029-7. eCollection
2015.

Sex differences of leukocytes DNA methylation adjusted for estimated cellular
proportions.

Inoshita M(1), Numata S(1), Tajima A(2), Kinoshita M(1), Umehara H(1), Yamamori
H(3), Hashimoto R(4), Imoto I(5), Ohmori T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima
University Graduate School, 3-18-15, Kuramoto, Tokushima, 770-8503 Japan.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima
University Graduate School, 3-18-15, Kuramoto, Tokushima, 770-8503 Japan ;
Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Medical Sciences,
Kanazawa University, 13-1, Takaramachi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920-8640 Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular Neuropsychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine, Suita, Osaka 5650871 Japan ; Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University
Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka 5650871 Japan. (4)Department of
Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka 5650871
Japan ; Molecular Research Center for Children's Mental Development, United
Graduate School of Child Development, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 5650871
Japan. (5)Department of Human Genetics, Institute of Biomedical Sciences,
Tokushima University Graduate School, 3-18-15, Kuramoto, Tokushima, 770-8503
Japan.

BACKGROUND: DNA methylation, which is most frequently the transference of a
methyl group to the 5-carbon position of the cytosine in a CpG dinucleotide,
plays an important role in both normal development and diseases. To date, several
genome-wide methylome studies have revealed sex-biased DNA methylation, yet no
studies have investigated sex differences in DNA methylation by taking into
account cellular heterogeneity. The aim of the present study was to investigate
sex-biased DNA methylation on the autosomes in human blood by adjusting for
estimated cellular proportions because cell-type proportions may vary by sex.
METHODS: We performed a genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of the peripheral
leukocytes in two sets of samples, a discovery set (49 males and 44 females) and 
a replication set (14 males and 10 females) using Infinium HumanMethylation450
BeadChips for 485,764 CpG dinucleotides and then examined the effect of sex on
DNA methylation with a multiple linear regression analysis after adjusting for
age, the estimated 6 cell-type proportions, and the covariates identified in a
surrogate variable analysis.
RESULTS: We identified differential DNA methylation between males and females at 
292 autosomal CpG site loci in the discovery set (Bonferroni-adjusted p < 0.05). 
Of these 292 CpG sites, significant sex differences were also observed at 98
sites in the replication set (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provided further evidence that DNA methylation may
play a role in the differentiation or maintenance of sexual dimorphisms. Our
methylome mapping of the effects of sex may be useful to understanding the
molecular mechanism involved in both normal development and diseases.

PMCID: PMC4480901
PMID: 26113971  [PubMed]


107. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 11;20:221.

Cholera: a comparison of the 2008-9 and 2010 Outbreaks in Kadoma City, Zimbabwe.

Maponga BA(1), Chirundu D(2), Gombe NT(1), Tshimanga M(1), Bangure D(1), Takundwa
L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe.
(2)Department of Health, Kadoma City Council, Kadoma, Zimbabwe.

INTRODUCTION: Kadoma City experienced cholera outbreaks in 2008-9, and 2010,
affecting 6,393 and 123 people, respectively. A study was conducted to compare
epidemiology of the cholera outbreaks.
METHODS: A descriptive cross sectional study was conducted, analyzing line list
data for the 2 outbreaks. Proportions, means were generated and compared using
the Chi Square test at 5% level of significance.
RESULTS: Cholera cases were similar by gender and age, with the 20-30 years group
being most affected. Rimuka township contributed 80% and 100% of city cases in
2008-9 and 2010, respectively, p value = 0.000. In 2008-9, 91% of cholera cases
presented within 2 days compared to 98% in 2010. Delay seeking treatment
increased from 58% to 73% (p value = 0.001), with gender, and place equally
affected. The 2010 outbreak evolved faster, resulting in higher proportion being 
managed in CTU. CFR was 2% in 2008-9, and 3.3% in 2010 (p value =0.31).
CONCLUSION: The 2008-9 and 2010 cholera outbreaks were similar by age and gender.
Rimuka Township was most affected by the outbreaks. There was worsening of delay 
seeking treatment. The 2010 outbreak was more rapid, leading to early opening of 
CTC. CFR was consistently above 1%.

PMCID: PMC4470448
PMID: 26113952  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


108. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 10;20:219.

The role of cytokines as inflammatory mediators in preeclampsia.

Udenze I(1), Amadi C(2), Awolola N(3), Makwe CC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Lagos,
Lagos, Nigeria. (2)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, University of
Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria. (3)Department of Anatomic and Molecular Pathology, College
of Medicine, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria. (4)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.

INTRODUCTION: This study is to determine the concentrations of IL-6, TNF α, and C
reactive protein (CRP) in women with severe preeclampsia, and compare with those 
of gestational age- matched normotensive pregnant women and to correlate CRP
levels with markers of organ damage in women with preeclampsia.
METHODS: This was a case control study of fifty women with severe preeclampsia
and fifty gestational age matched pregnant women with normal blood pressure. The 
women were drawn from The Antenatal Clinic of The Lagos University Teaching
Hospital. Severe pre eclampsia was defined as systolic blood pressure ≥160 mmHg
and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥110mmHg and ≥2+ of proteinuria. After obtaining 
an informed consent, each participant completed a structured questionnaire. The
questionnaire sought information on socio-demographic and clinical data. From
each participant, mid-stream urine was collected for urinalysis and culture, and 
blood sample was collected for biochemical analysis. Comparisons of continuous
variables and categorical variables were done using the Student's t test and Chi 
square test respectively. Correlation analysis was used to determine the
associations between variables. Statistical significance was set at P.
RESULTS: The women were similar in their socio demographic characteristics. There
was a statistically significant difference in the systolic blood pressure (p <
0.0001), diastolic blood pressure ( p < 0.0001), uric acid ( p < 0.0001), AST ( p
< 0.0001), ALP ( p < 0.0001), creatinine ( p < 0.0013), GGT ( p < 0.005), IL 6 ( 
p < 0.021), CRP ( p < 0.0002), and TNF α ( p < 0.023), between the group with
severe preeclampsia and the group with normal blood pressure. This study also
reports a significant association between CRP and systolic blood pressure,
diastolic blood pressure, uric acid AST and ALP (p.
CONCLUSION: The inflammatory cytokines, IL6, TNF α and CRP are elevated in severe
preeclampsia and may mediate some of the clinical manifestations of the disorder.
A role may exist for anti inflammatory agents in the management of women with
preeclampsia.

PMCID: PMC4470443
PMID: 26113950  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


109. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 6;20:209.

Prevalence of premarital sexual practice and associated factors among
undergraduate health science students of Madawalabu University, Bale Goba, South 
East Ethiopia: institution based cross sectional study.

Teferra TB(1), Erena AN(2), Kebede A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mada Walabu University, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Department of
Nursing, Bale Goba, Ethiopia. (2)Mada Walabu University, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Department of Medicine, Bale Goba, Ethiopia.

INTRODUCTION: Several studies in Sub- Saharan Africa have documented high and
increasing premarital sexual activities among adolescents. Younger people face
social, peer and cultural pressure to engage in premarital sex. As a result,
significant numbers of adolescents are involved in sexual activities at an early 
age which exposes them to the risk of unintended pregnancy, early marriage,
abortion and STIs/HIV/AIDS. This study was conducted to determine Prevalence of
premarital sexual practice and associated factors among Health science students
of Madawalabu University, Ethiopia.
METHODS: A Descriptive cross sectional survey was employed and three hundred
twenty four students were randomly selected after proportional allocation
according to their level of education. Data were collected by a self
-administered questionnaire and analyzed using SPSS Version 16. A stepwise
logistic regression with forward method was used to identify independent
predictors of premarital sexual practices at 95% CI and P value less than 0.05.
RESULTS: Of respondents 181 (59.9%) who had a boy or girl friends; about 129
(42.7%) have had premarital sexual intercourse. Out of sexually active
respondents, 85 (66.4%) had one sexual partner, 44 (33.6%) had two or more sexual
partners. The average age of starting sexual intercourses was 18.4 ±2.14years.
Sixty three (20.9%) of respondents reported tobacco smoking and 117 (38.7%)
reported consumption of alcohol consumption.
CONCLUSION: Alcohol use, boarding, sex, educational level and discussion about
sexuality were significantly associated with premarital sexual intercourses. So, 
there is the need to step up Reproductive health club at the university to bring 
behavior change among the students in order to detain the usual consequences of
premarital sexual practices and risky sexual behavior.

PMCID: PMC4470411
PMID: 26113940  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


110. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 3;20:197.

Healthcare-associated infections in a tunisian university hospital: from analysis
to action.

Mahjoub M(1), Bouafia N(1), Bannour W(1), Masmoudi T(2), Bouriga R(3), Hellali
R(1), Cheikh AB(1), Ezzi O(1), Abdeljellil AB(1), Mansour N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Hygiene Service, University Hospital Centre Farhat Hached, Sousse,
Tunisia. (2)Forensic Medical Service, University Hospital Centre Farhat Hached,
Sousse Tunisia. (3)Hematology Service, University Hospital Centre Farhat Hached, 
Sousse, Tunisia.

INTRODUCTION: Our study was conducted, in university hospital center (UHC) Farhat
Hached of Sousse (city in Tunisian center-east), within healthcare-associated
infections (HAI) epidemiological surveillance (ES) program, based, among others, 
on HAI regular prevalence surveys. Our objectives are to resituate HAI prevalence
rate and to identify their risk factors (RF) in order to adjust, in our hospital,
prevention programs.
METHODS: It is a transversal descriptive study, including all patients who had
been hospitalized for at least 48 hours, measuring prevalence of HAI a "given
day", with only one passage by service. Risk factors were determined using
Epiinfo 6.0, by uni-varied analysis, then, logistic regression stepwise
descending for the variables whose p.
RESULTS: The study focused on 312 patients. Infected patients prevalence was
12.5% and that of HAI was 14.5%. Infections on peripheral venous catheter (PVC)
dominated (42.2%) among all HAI identified. HAI significant RF were neutropenia
(p < 10(-4)) for intrinsic factors, and PVC for extrinsic factors (p = 0,003).
CONCLUSION: Predominance of infections on PVC should be subject of specific
prevention actions, including retro-information strategy, prospective ES,
professional practices evaluation and finally training and increasing awareness
of health personnel with hygiene measures. Finally, development of a patient
safety culture with personnel ensures best adherence to hygiene measures and HAI 
prevention.

PMCID: PMC4469509
PMID: 26113928  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


111. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 3;20:196.

Evaluation of HIV antigen /antibody combination ELISAs for diagnosis of HIV
infection in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania.

Urio LJ(1), Mohamed MA(2), Mghamba J(2), Abade A(1), Aboud S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Tanzania Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Program, Tanzania.
(2)Tanzania Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Program, Tanzania ;
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania. (3)Mirobiology
and Immunology, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of Enzygnost 
HIV Integral II antigen/antibody combination ELISAs in order to formulate HIV
ELISA testing algorithms for the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Tanzania.
METHODS: This was a laboratory-based evaluation of Enzygnost HIV Integral II
Antibody/ Antigen, Murex HIV antigen/antibody and Vironostika HIV Uniform II
antigen/antibody conducted between October 2011 and May 2012.
RESULTS: A total of 600 blood samples were included in the evaluation. A total of
209/596 (35.1%) serum samples were confirmed HIV positive. Of these, the
prevalence of HIV infection was 2.3% (3/130), 2.3% (3/127), 2.2% (3/139) and 100%
(200/200) for VCT clients, ANC attendees, blood donors and CTC patients,
respectively. Three hundred and eighty seven (64.9%) were HIV negative samples.
Sensitivity was 100% (95% CI; 98.3-100%) for all the three HIV ELISAs. The
specificity for the Enzygnost HIV Integral II and Murex was 100% (95% CI;
99.1-100%). The final specificity at repeat testing was 99.5% (95% CI;
98.2-99.9%) for Vironostika. Enzygnost HIV Integral II detected HIV infection
seven days since first bleed.
CONCLUSION: Initial testing using either Vironostika or Murex HIV
antigen/antibody combination ELISA followed by testing of reactive samples on the
Enzygnost HIV Integral II gave a sensitivity and specificity of 100% with reduced
window period. Combination of two HIV antigen/antibody combination ELISAs can be 
used as an alternative confirmatory testing strategy for screening of donated
blood at the National and Zonal blood transfusion centres and in lab diagnosis of
HIV infection.

PMCID: PMC4469516
PMID: 26113927  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


112. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Mar 2;20:192.

Supporting early career health investigators in Kenya: A qualitative study of
HIV/AIDS research capacity building.

Daniels J(1), Nduati R(2), Kiarie J(3), Farquhar C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, USA. (2)Department of
Global Health, University of Washington, USA ; Department of Pediatrics and
Child, Health University of Nairobi, Kenya. (3)Department of Global Health,
University of Washington, USA ; Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Nairobi, Kenya. (4)Department of Global Health, University of
Washington, USA ; Department of Medicine, University of Washington, USA ;
Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Strategies to transfer international health research training
programs to sub-Saharan African institutions focus on developing cadres of local 
investigators who will lead such programs. Using a critical leadership theory
framework, we conducted a qualitative study of one program to understand how
collaborative training and research can support early career investigators in
Kenya toward the program transfer goal.
METHODS: We used purposive sampling methods and a semi-structured protocol to
conduct in-depth interviews with US (N = 5) and Kenyan (N = 5) independent
investigators. Transcripts were coded using a two-step process, and then compared
with each other to identify major themes.
RESULTS: A limited local research environment, funding needs and research career 
mentorship were identified as major influences on early career researchers.
Institutional demands on Kenyan faculty to teach rather than complete research
restricted investigators' ability to develop research careers. This was coupled
with lack of local funding to support research. Sustainable collaborations
between Kenyan, US and other international investigators were perceived to
mitigate these challenges and support early career investigators who would help
build a robust local research environment for training.
CONCLUSION: Mutually beneficial collaborations between Kenyan and US
investigators developed during training mitigate these challenges and build a
supportive research environment for training. In these collaborations, early
career investigators learn how to navigate the complex international research
environment to build local HIV research capacity. Shared and mutually beneficial 
resources within international research collaborations are required to support
early career investigators and plans to transfer health research training to
African institutions.

PMCID: PMC4469515
PMID: 26113923  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


113. Pan Afr Med J. 2015 Feb 25;20:177.

Patterns and obstacles to oral antidiabetic medications adherence among type 2
diabetics in Ismailia, Egypt: a cross section study.

Heissam K(1), Abuamer Z(1), El-Dahshan N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Family Medicine Department, Faculty of Medicine, Suez Canal University,
Ismailia, Egypt.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetes is a costly and increasingly common chronic disease.
Effective management of diabetes to achieve glycemic control improves patient
quality of life. Adherence rates to drug regimens in patients with type 2
diabetes are relatively low and vary widely between populations. There are many
factors that could affect patient adherence to drug therapy. The aim of the
present study was assessing patterns and obstacles to adherence of type 2
diabetic patients to their oral hypoglycemic drugs.
METHODS: The present work is a descriptive cross section study, carried on type 2
diabetic patients who were on oral hypoglycemic drugs. Data concerning adherence 
to drugs was assessed using measure treatment adherence scale (MTA).
RESULTS: A total of 372 (55.59% males and 44.41% females) patients with type-2
diabetes fulfilled the inclusion criteria and included in the study. Among the
participants, 26.1% were found to have good adherence, 47.9% had a fair
adherence, and 26% had poor adherence.
CONCLUSION: The overall rate of medication adherence among the diabetic patients 
population was suboptimal and non-acceptable. Evaluation of adherence is vital
for patients with diabetes in order to determine factors and barriers affecting
the adherence and to manage them.

PMCID: PMC4469448
PMID: 26113919  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


114. World Cult Psychiatry Res Rev. 2014 Dec 1;9(3):70-80.

Mental health literacy among secondary school students in North and Central
Uganda: a qualitative study.

Okello ES(1), Abbo C(2), Muhwezi WW(1), Akello G(1), Ovuga E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Gulu University, P.O. BOX 166, Gulu, Uganda.
(2)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Red Cross War Memorial Hospital
and University of Cape Town, 7700 Rondebosch, Cape Town, South Africa.

OBJECTIVES: There has been limited effort to explore young people's perceptions
about mental illness in Uganda. For mental health programs targeting young people
to succeed, it is important to incorporate their understanding of mental illness,
their perceptions about causes of mental illness and their attitudes about
mentally ill people. The objective of this study was to explore the mental health
of young people in secondary schools in Northern and Central Uganda.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This was a qualitative study where 24 focus group
discussions (FGDs) were held with young people in secondary schools. Respondents 
aged 14-24 years were purposively selected from 4 secondary schools in the two
regions. During the FGDs, young people's perceptions and understanding of three
areas listed below were explored: meaning of mental health/mental illness; causes
of mental illness and attitudes toward mental illness. Data management and
analysis was done with the help of Atlas.ti, a-qualitative-analysis software.
Thematic analysis approach was employed.
RESULTS: FGD participants used concepts like a sound and normal mind, right
thinking, normal behavior and normal thoughts to define mental health. Mental
illness on the other hand was defined as loss of sense of reality, malfunctioning
of the brain, impaired thinking and bizarre behavior. Young people attributed
mental illness to; substance abuse (Marijuana, alcohol), witnessing traumatic
events (seeing ones your relatives being killed, or being forced to participate
in killing-frequently mentioned by young people in Northern Uganda); witch craft,
effect of physical illness e.g. HIV/epilepsy, thinking too much, accidents and
genetic explanations. They had mixed opinions about interacting with mentally ill
individuals. Unpredictability and dangerousness were known to be a recurrent
theme among people with negative views about mentally ill. Nonetheless, some FGD 
participants believed that the level of interaction with mentally ill persons
depended on familiarity with mental illness and the severity of the symptoms.
Similarly, there were mixed opinions regarding mental illness and work. Three
main clusters of responses emerged. These were: i) "mentally ill people should
not work"; ii) "mentally ill people should work but.."; iii) "mentally ill people
should work like everyone else".
CONCLUSIONS: Findings point to key gaps in the knowledge and attitudes of young
people that need to be targeted by young-people-focused-interventions for mental 
health. In order for such interventions to succeed, young people must be able to 
recognize and respond appropriately to signs of distress, reduced functioning,
and other early signs of poor mental health.

PMCID: PMC4477034
PMID: 26113883  [PubMed]


115. Genome Med. 2015 May 15;7(1):45. doi: 10.1186/s13073-015-0168-9. eCollection
2015.

Widespread intron retention diversifies most cancer transcriptomes.

Dvinge H(1), Bradley RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Computational Biology Program, Public Health Sciences Division, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA USA ; Basic Sciences Division,
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA USA.

BACKGROUND: Somatic mutations affecting components of the RNA splicing machinery 
occur with high frequencies across many tumor types. These mutations give rise to
distinct alterations in normal splice site and exon recognition, such as unusual 
3' splice site preferences, that likely contribute to tumorigenesis.
METHODS: We analyzed genome-wide patterns of RNA splicing across 805 matched
tumor and normal control samples from 16 distinct cancer types to identify
signals of abnormal cancer-associated splicing.
RESULTS: We found that abnormal RNA splicing, typified by widespread intron
retention, is common across cancers even in the absence of mutations directly
affecting the RNA splicing machinery. Almost all liquid and solid cancer types
exhibited frequent retention of both alternative and constitutive introns
relative to control normal tissues. The sole exception was breast cancer, where
intron retention typified adjacent normal rather than cancer tissue. Different
introns were preferentially retained in specific cancer types, although a small
subset of introns enriched for genes encoding RNA splicing and export factors
exhibited frequent retention across diverse cancers. The extent of intron
retention correlated with the presence of IDH1 and IDH2 mutations in acute
myeloid leukemia and across molecular subtypes in breast cancer. Many introns
that were preferentially retained in primary cancers were present at high levels 
in the cytoplasmic mRNA pools of cancer cell lines.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that abnormal RNA splicing is a common
characteristic of cancers even in the absence of mutational insults to the
splicing machinery, and suggest that intron-containing mRNAs contribute to the
transcriptional diversity of many cancers.

PMCID: PMC4480902
PMID: 26113877  [PubMed]


116. Epigenetics Chromatin. 2015 Jun 23;8:22. doi: 10.1186/s13072-015-0014-8.
eCollection 2015.

Wanderer, an interactive viewer to explore DNA methylation and gene expression
data in human cancer.

Díez-Villanueva A(1), Mallona I(1), Peinado MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Predictive and Personalized Medicine of Cancer (IMPPC), Ctra. de 
Can Ruti, camí de les Escoles, s/n, 08916 Badalona, Spain ; Health Research
Institute Germans Trias i Pujol (IGTP), Can Ruti Campus, Ctra. de Can Ruti, camí 
de les Escoles, s/n, 08916 Badalona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) offers a multilayered view of genomics
and epigenomics data of many human cancer types. However, the retrieval of
expression and methylation data from TCGA is a cumbersome and time-consuming
task.
RESULTS: Wanderer is an intuitive Web tool allowing real time access and
visualization of gene expression and DNA methylation profiles from TCGA. Given a 
gene query and selection of a TCGA dataset (e.g., colon adenocarcinomas), the Web
resource provides the expression profile, at the single exon level, and the DNA
methylation levels of HumanMethylation450 BeadChip loci inside or in the vicinity
of the queried gene. Graphic and table outputs include individual and summary
data as well as statistical tests, allowing the comparison of tumor and normal
profiles and the exploration along the genomic locus and across tumor
collections.
CONCLUSIONS: Wanderer offers a simple interface to straightforward access to TCGA
data, amenable to experimentalists and clinicians without bioinformatics
expertise. Wanderer may be accessed at http://maplab.cat/wanderer.

PMCID: PMC4480445
PMID: 26113876  [PubMed]


117. Plant Methods. 2015 Jun 26;11:36. doi: 10.1186/s13007-015-0079-1. eCollection
2015.

Biases underlying species detection using fluorescent amplified-fragment length
polymorphisms yielded from roots.

Karst J(1), Chow P(1), Landhäusser SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Renewable Resources, University of Alberta, 442 Earth Sciences
Building, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3 Canada.

BACKGROUND: Roots of different plant species are typically morphologically
indistinguishable. Of the DNA-based techniques, fluorescent amplified-fragment
length polymorphisms (FAFLPs) are considered reliable, high throughput,
inexpensive methods to identify roots from mixed species samples.
False-negatives, however, are not uncommon and their underlying causes are poorly
understood. We investigated several sources of potential biases originating in
DNA extraction and amplification. Specifically, we examined the effects of sample
storage, tissue, and species on DNA yield and purity, and the effects of DNA
concentration and fragment size on amplification of three non-coding chloroplast 
regions (trnT-trnL intergenic spacer, trnL intron, and trnL-trnF intergenic
spacer).
RESULTS: We found that sample condition, tissue and species all affected DNA
yield. A single freeze-thaw reduces DNA yield, DNA yield is less for roots than
shoots, and species vary in the amount of DNA yielded from extractions. The
effects of template DNA concentration, species identity, and their interaction on
amplicon yield differed across the three chloroplast regions tested. We found
that the effect of species identity on amplicon production was generally more
pronounced than that of DNA concentration. Though these factors influenced DNA
yield, they likely do not have a pronounced effect on detection success of
fragments and only underscore the restriction on the use of FAFLPs for measuring 
species presence rather than their abundance. However, for two of the regions
tested-the trnT-trnL intergenic spacer and the trnL intron-size-based fragment
competition occurred and the likelihood of detection was higher for smaller than 
larger fragments. This result reveals a methodological bias when using FAFLPs.
CONCLUSIONS: To avoid potential bias with the use of FAFLPs, we recommend users
check for the disproportionate absence of species detected belowground versus
aboveground as a function of fragment size, and explore other regions, aside from
the trnT-trnL intergenic spacer and trnL intron, for amplification.

PMCID: PMC4480983
PMID: 26113872  [PubMed]


118. Int Breastfeed J. 2015 Jun 2;10:18. doi: 10.1186/s13006-015-0043-8. eCollection
2015.

Maternal intravenous fluids and postpartum breast changes: a pilot observational 
study.

Kujawa-Myles S(1), Noel-Weiss J(1), Dunn S(2), Peterson WE(1), Cotterman KJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, Ottawa,
Ontario Canada. (2)Better Outcomes Registry & Network (BORN Ontario), Ottawa,
Ontario Canada ; Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute,
Ottawa, Ontario Canada.

BACKGROUND: The current breastfeeding initiation rate in Canada is approximately 
87%. By one month, about 21% of women have stopped breastfeeding. Engorgement and
edema in breast tissue can lead to breastfeeding challenges which may contribute 
to early weaning. The aims of this pilot research study were to explore the
relationship between intrapartum intravenous fluids given to mothers and
postpartum breast swelling in the first 10 days postpartum and to determine if a 
larger study was warranted and feasible.
METHODS: A prospective, longitudinal, observational cohort pilot study with
repeated measures and a within-subjects design was completed. Participants were
first time mothers who have a single, healthy newborn and had a spontaneous
vaginal birth. Daily data collection from admission into the study until
postpartum day 10 took place. Descriptive statistics are reported and linear
regression analysis was used to model the relationship between IV therapy and
postpartum breast edema.
RESULTS: Women who received intravenous fluids during labour had higher levels of
breast edema postpartum and rated their breasts as firmer and more tender than
women who did not receive intravenous fluids. Participants who had intravenous
fluids described patterns of fullness that appeared to be related to edema as
opposed to fullness associated with engorgement and lactogenesis II.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings demonstrate that mothers in this pilot study who
received intravenous fluids in labour and postpartum had higher levels of breast 
edema. These results suggest a larger study is warranted to more fully examine
the effects of intravenous fluids on postpartum breast swelling.

PMCID: PMC4480510
PMID: 26113871  [PubMed]


119. Emerg Themes Epidemiol. 2015 Jun 25;12:9. doi: 10.1186/s12982-015-0031-x.
eCollection 2015.

Children and youth with 'unspecified injury to the head': implications for
traumatic brain injury research and surveillance.

Chan V(1), Mann RE(2), Pole JD(3), Colantonio A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON
Canada ; Rehabilitation Sciences Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON
Canada ; Pediatric Oncology Group of Ontario, Toronto, ON Canada. (2)Centre for
Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, ON Canada ; Dalla Lana School of Public
Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada. (3)Pediatric Oncology Group of
Ontario, Toronto, ON Canada ; Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada. (4)Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University
Health Network, Toronto, ON Canada ; Rehabilitation Sciences Institute,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada ; Dalla Lana School of Public Health,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada.

BACKGROUND: The case definition for traumatic brain injury (TBI) often includes
'unspecified injury to the head' diagnostic codes. However, research has shown
that the inclusion of these codes leads to false positives. As such, it is
important to determine the degree to which inclusion of these codes affect the
overall numbers and profiles of the TBI population. The objective of this paper
was to profile and compare the demographic and clinical characteristics,
intention and mechanism of injury, and discharge disposition of hospitalized
children and youth aged 19 years and under using (1) an inclusive TBI case
definition that included 'unspecified injury to the head' diagnostic codes, (2) a
restricted TBI case definition that excluded 'unspecified injury to the head
'diagnostic codes, and (3) the 'unspecified injury to the head' only case
definition.
METHODS: The National Ambulatory Care Reporting System and the Discharge Abstract
Database from Ontario, Canada, were used to identify cases between fiscal years
2003/04 and 2009/10.
RESULTS: The rate of TBI episodes of care using the inclusive case definition for
TBI (2,667.2 per 100,000) was 1.65 times higher than that of the restricted case 
definition (1,613.3 per 100,000). 'Unspecified injury to the head' diagnostic
codes made up of 39.5 % of all cases identified with the inclusive case
definition. Exclusion of 'unspecified injury to the head' diagnostic code in the 
TBI case definition resulted in a significantly higher proportion of patients in 
the intensive care units (p < .0001; 18.5 % vs. 22.2 %) and discharged to a
non-home setting (p < .0001; 9.9 % vs. 11.6 %).
CONCLUSION: Inclusion of 'unspecified injury to the head' diagnostic codes
resulted in significant changes in numbers, healthcare use, and causes of TBI.
Careful consideration of the inclusion of 'unspecified injury to the head'
diagnostic codes in the case definition of TBI for the children and youth
population is important, as it has implications for the numbers used for policy, 
resource allocation, prevention, and planning of healthcare services. This paper 
can inform future work on reaching consensus on the diagnostic codes for defining
TBI in children and youth.

PMCID: PMC4480889
PMID: 26113870  [PubMed]


120. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2015 Jun 25;12:29. doi: 10.1186/s12970-015-0091-x.
eCollection 2015.

Rhabdomyolysis and exercise-associated hyponatremia in ultra-bikers and
ultra-runners.

Chlíbková D(1), Knechtle B(2), Rosemann T(2), Tomášková I(3), Novotný J(4),
Žákovská A(5), Uher T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Sports Activities, Brno University of Technology, Brno, Czech
Republic. (2)Institute of Primary Care, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. (3)Faculty of Forestry and Wood Sciences, Czech University of Life
Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic. (4)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk
University, Brno, Czech Republic. (5)Institute of Experimental Biology, Faculty
of Science, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. (6)Center for Adult
Medicine in Bohunice, University Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: Exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH), rhabdomyolysis and renal
failure appear to be a unique problem in ultra-endurance racers.
METHODS: We investigated the combined occurrence of EAH and rhabdomyolysis in
seven different ultra-endurance races and disciplines (i.e. multi-stage mountain 
biking, 24-h mountain biking, 24-h ultra-running and 100-km ultra-running).
RESULTS: Two (15.4 %) ultra-runners (man and woman) from hyponatremic
ultra-athletes (n = 13) and four (4 %) ultra-runners (four men) from the
normonatremic group (n = 100) showed rhabdomyolysis following elevated blood
creatine kinase (CK) levels > 10,000 U/L without the development of renal failure
and the necessity of a medical treatment. Post-race creatine kinase, plasma and
urine creatinine significantly increased, while plasma [Na(+)] and creatine
clearance decreased in hyponatremic and normonatremic athletes, respectively. The
percentage increase of CK was higher in the hyponatremic compared to the
normonatremic group (P < 0.05). Post-race CK levels were higher in ultra-runners 
compared to mountain bikers (P < 0.01), in faster normonatremic (P < 0.05) and
older and more experienced hyponatremic ultra-athletes (P < 0.05). In all
finishers, pre-race plasma [K(+)] was related to post-race CK (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Hyponatremic ultra-athletes tended to develop exercise-induced
rhabdomyolysis more frequently than normonatremic ultra-athletes. Ultra-runners
tended to develop rhabdomyolysis more frequently than mountain bikers. We found
no association between post-race plasma [Na(+)] and CK concentration in both
hypo- and normonatremic ultra-athletes.

PMCID: PMC4480906
PMID: 26113805  [PubMed - in process]


121. Thromb J. 2015 Jun 25;13:21. doi: 10.1186/s12959-015-0052-2. eCollection 2015.

Retrospective cohort analysis comparing the incidence of deep vein thromboses
between peripherally-inserted and long-term skin tunneled venous catheters in
hemato-oncology patients.

Sriskandarajah P(1), Webb K(1), Chisholm D(2), Raobaikady R(2), Davis K(1),
Pepper N(1), Ethell ME(1), Potter MN(1), Shaw BE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haem-Oncology, Royal Marsden Hospital, Downs Road, Sutton, SM2
5PT UK. (2)Department of Anesthetics, Royal Marsden Hospital, Downs Road, Sutton,
SM2 5PT UK.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of central venous catheters has advanced medical
care, particularly in hemato-oncology. However these can be associated with an
increased thrombotic risk. Previous studies have compared the rate of thrombotic 
events between peripherally- inserted (PICCs) and long term skin tunneled
catheters (LTSTCs) noting fewer complications associated with the latter, though 
this has rarely translated into clinical practice. The objectives of our study
was to compare the cumulative incidence of thrombotic events between
peripherally-inserted and long term skin tunneled venous catheters.
PATIENTS/METHODS: We performed a retrospective, single center cohort analysis of 
patients with hematological malignancies who had either a PICC or LTSTC line
inserted between January 2010 through January 2013. Cumulative incidences of
thrombotic events were compared between the two groups, and post-thrombotic
complications were also examined.
RESULTS: 346 patients had a PICC inserted with cumulative incidence of
symptomatic thrombosis of 5.8%, while 237 patients had a LTSTC inserted with a
cumulative incidence of 1.7% (p = 0.003). Post-thrombotic complication rates,
particularly infection, were higher in the PICC group compared to the LTSTC group
(p = 0.597).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that the incidence of thrombotic events in
hemato-oncology patients was significantly lower in those who had a LTSTC
compared to PICC line. As the use of central venous lines increases in
hemato-oncology patient care, a randomized trial comparing PICCs and LTSTCs is
necessary to address which venous access is most appropriate in this cohort of
patients, with minimal risk of morbidity and mortality.

PMCID: PMC4480444
PMID: 26113804  [PubMed]


122. J Inflamm (Lond). 2015 Jun 26;12:40. doi: 10.1186/s12950-015-0085-0. eCollection 
2015.

Nur77 deficiency leads to systemic inflammation in elderly mice.

Li XM(1), Lu XX(1), Xu Q(1), Wang JR(1), Zhang S(1), Guo PD(1), Li JM(1), Wu
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Center and Department of Pathology, Soochow University, Suzhou,
215123 China.

BACKGROUND: Nur77, an orphan member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, has been
implicated in the regulation of inflammation. However, the in vivo function of
Nur77 remains largely unexplored. In the current study, we investigated the role 
of Nur77 in inflammation and immunity in mice.
FINDINGS: We found that elderly 8-month-old Nur77-deficient mice (Nur77(-/-))
developed systemic inflammation. Compared to wild-type (WT) mice (Nur77(+/+)),
Nur77(-/-) mice showed splenomegaly, severe infiltration of inflammatory cells in
several organs including liver, lung, spleen and kidney, increased hyperplasia of
fibrous tissue in the lung and enlargement of kidney glomeruli. Additionally,
Nur77(-/-) mice had increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and
immunoglobulin, and elicited pro-inflammatory M1-like polarization in macrophages
as revealed by increased expression of CXCL11 and INDO, and decreased expression 
of MRC1.
CONCLUSIONS: These in vivo observations provide evidence for a pivotal role for
Nur77 in the regulation of systemic inflammation and emphasize the pathogenic
significance of Nur77 in vivo.

PMCID: PMC4480882
PMID: 26113803  [PubMed]


123. Cancer Cell Int. 2015 Jun 11;15:59. doi: 10.1186/s12935-015-0210-4. eCollection
2015.

Effect of Matrine on HPAC cell migration by down-regulating the expression of
MT1-MMP via Wnt signaling.

Ma Y(1), Zou F(1), Xiong J(2), Wan W(2), Yin L(2), Li X(2), Bei Z(3), Yuan L(2), 
Meng S(2), Wang J(2), Song G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Luohe Medical College, Daxue Road, #148, Luohe City, Henan Province 462000
People's Republic of China ; Key lab, of BioMedicine of Luohe City, Luohe, China.
(2)Luohe Medical College, Daxue Road, #148, Luohe City, Henan Province 462000
People's Republic of China. (3)Chengde Nursing Vocational College, Chengde,
China.

AIM: This study sought to explore the exact mechanism of Matrine inhibited
migration and invasion of human pancreatic cancer cells.
METHODS: HPAC or Capan-1 cells were cultured in completed RPMI-1640 medium,
contained with 50 μg/ml Matrine or 0.05 μg/ml docetaxel, respectively. Cell
viability was evaluated by spectrophotometric analysis using MTT assay. Wound
healing assay and transwell approach were used to detect the effects of Matrine
on HPAC cell migration and invasion. Western Blot and RT-PCR were performed to
detect the expressions of MT1-MMP, Wnt and β-Catenin. CHIP assay was used to
detect whether the MT1-MMP transcription activity correlated with Wnt signaling
pathway.
RESULTS: MTT results indicated that cell proliferration was inhibited by Matrine 
at a range of concentrations, especially at high dose. We further found that
Matrine treatment significantly induced cell migration and invasion decreased.
Interestingly, the expression of MT1-MMP decreased evidently upon Matrine
treatment, paralleled with the expressions of Wnt and β-Catenin detected by
Western Blot and RT-PCR assay. Further analysis of MT1-MMP transcription activity
revealed that Matrine reduced the expression of MT1-MMP mediated by Wnt signaling
pathway.
CONCLUSION: Matrine play a vital role in inhibiting HPAC cellular migration and
invasion through down-regulating the expression of MT1-MMP via Wnt signaling
pathway.

PMCID: PMC4480578
PMID: 26113801  [PubMed]


124. Adolesc Health Med Ther. 2015 Jun 26;6:91-9. doi: 10.2147/AHMT.S56065.
eCollection 2015.

Internet-based adherence interventions for treatment of chronic disorders in
adolescents.

Bass AM(1), Farhangian ME(1), Feldman SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Dermatology Research, Department of Dermatology, Wake Forest School
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA. (2)Center for Dermatology Research,
Department of Dermatology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA
; Department of Pathology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA
; Department of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Treatment adherence is a ubiquitous challenge in medicine,
particularly in the adolescent population with chronic disorders. Web-based
adherence interventions may be particularly useful in adolescents, due to their
familiarity with and frequent use of the Internet.
OBJECTIVE: To review web-based interventions used to improve adherence to
medication in adolescent patients with chronic disorders.
METHODS: A PubMed search was performed for full-text, English, clinical trials in
adolescents using keywords "adherence" or "compliance", "Internet" or "web", and 
"treatment" from inception until November 2014. Articles were selected if they
involved using the Internet to provide support to adolescents to help improve
their adherence to treatment, excluding those focused on solely providing medical
services through the Internet and articles focusing on preventative care, rather 
than treatment of an illness.
RESULTS: Fourteen studies were found concentrating on chronic adolescent
disorders. Interventions included online surveys, physician chat lines,
monitoring programs, and interactive programs. All interventions experienced
either greater improvement in adherence or another disease control measure or no 
statistically significant difference compared with the control group (in-clinic
visits).
LIMITATIONS: Few clinical trials studying web-based interventions to improve
adherence in adolescents were found. Due to not having one standard outcome
measured in all of the studies, it was also difficult comparing the effectiveness
of the interventions.
CONCLUSION: Web-based interventions play a role in improving adherence in
adolescents with chronic disorders by being more time saving and cost effective
compared with in-clinic visits. Further research focusing on adherence
interventions using the Internet is necessary to determine the ideal ways of
utilizing the Internet to improve adherence in adolescents with chronic
disorders.

PMCID: PMC4451797
PMID: 26113787  [PubMed]


125. Med Educ Online. 2015 Jun 24;20:27924. doi: 10.3402/meo.v20.27924. eCollection
2015.

The relationships among self-care, dispositional mindfulness, and psychological
distress in medical students.

Slonim J(1,)(2), Kienhuis M(3), Di Benedetto M(3), Reece J(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Education, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. (2)School of
Health Sciences, RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia;
jrslo1@student.monash.edu. (3)School of Health Sciences, RMIT University,
Melbourne, Australia. (4)School of Psychological Science, Australian College of
Applied Psychology, Melbourne, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Past research suggests that medical students experience high levels
of psychological distress.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to investigate the relationships
among engagement in self-care behaviours, dispositional mindfulness, and
psychological distress.
METHODS: The sample consisted of 139 female and 68 male Australian medical
students (N=207) aged 17-41 years (M=21.82, SD=3.62) across the 5 years of the
Monash University medical course. Participants completed an online survey
comprising a demographics questionnaire, the Five Facet Mindfulness
Questionnaire, the Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile II, and the Depression,
Anxiety, and Stress Scales.
RESULTS: Results revealed significant and interpretable multivariate correlations
between distress and both mindfulness and self-care. Furthermore, the
dispositional mindfulness observation subscale was found to be a significant
moderator of the relationship between several dimensions of self-care and
psychological distress.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study points to the potential of self-care and
mindfulness to decrease medical student distress and enhance well-being.

PMID: 26112354  [PubMed - in process]


126. Med Educ Online. 2015 Jun 24;20:27706. doi: 10.3402/meo.v20.27706. eCollection
2015.

Does academic assessment system type affect levels of academic stress in medical 
students? A cross-sectional study from Pakistan.

Ali M(1), Asim H(1), Edhi AI(1), Hashmi MD(1), Khan MS(1), Naz F(1), Qaiser
KN(1), Qureshi SM(1), Zahid MF(2), Jehan I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Graduate, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan. (2)Medical Graduate,
Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan; faizanzahid91@hotmail.com. (3)Department 
of Community Health Sciences, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.

INTRODUCTION: Stress among medical students induced by academic pressures is on
the rise among the student population in Pakistan and other parts of the world.
Our study examined the relationship between two different systems employed to
assess academic performance and the levels of stress among students at two
different medical schools in Karachi, Pakistan.
METHODS: A sample consisting of 387 medical students enrolled in pre-clinical
years was taken from two universities, one employing the semester examination
system with grade point average (GPA) scores (a tiered system) and the other
employing an annual examination system with only pass/fail grading. A
pre-designed, self-administered questionnaire was distributed. Test anxiety
levels were assessed by The Westside Test Anxiety Scale (WTAS). Overall stress
was evaluated using the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS).
RESULTS: There were 82 males and 301 females while four did not respond to the
gender question. The mean age of the entire cohort was 19.7±1.0 years. A total of
98 participants were from the pass/fail assessment system while 289 were from the
GPA system. There was a higher proportion of females in the GPA system (85% vs.
59%; p<0.01). Students in the pass/fail assessment system had a lower score on
the WTAS (2.4±0.8 vs. 2.8±0.7; p=0.01) and the PSS (17.0±6.7 vs. 20.3±6.8;
p<0.01), indicating lower levels of test anxiety and overall stress than in
students enrolled in the GPA assessment system. More students in the pass/fail
system were satisfied with their performance than those in the GPA system.
CONCLUSION: Based on the present study, we suggest governing bodies to revise and
employ a uniform assessment system for all the medical colleges to improve
student academic performance and at the same time reduce stress levels. Our
results indicate that the pass/fail assessment system accomplishes these
objectives.

PMID: 26112353  [PubMed - in process]


127. Infect Ecol Epidemiol. 2015 Jun 24;5:27094. doi: 10.3402/iee.v5.27094.
eCollection 2015.

Evaluation of antibiotic prescription in the Lebanese community: a pilot study.

Saleh N(1), Awada S(2), Awwad R(2), Jibai S(2), Arfoul C(2), Zaiter L(2), Dib
W(2), Salameh P(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology & Biostatistics Department, Faculty of Public Health II, Lebanese
University, Beirut, Lebanon. (2)Clinical & Epidemiological Research Laboratory,
Master & Research Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Lebanese University, Beirut,
Lebanon. (3)Clinical & Epidemiological Research Laboratory, Master & Research
Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Lebanese University, Beirut, Lebanon;
pascalesalameh1@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotics are considered among the most commonly prescribed drug
classes in developing countries. Inappropriate prescription of antibiotics is a
major public health concern and is related to the development of antimicrobial
resistance.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed at assessing the appropriateness of antibiotic
prescription by non-infectious disease physicians in a community setting in
Lebanon.
METHODS: A pilot cross-sectional study was undertaken on community pharmacy
patients presenting with antibiotic prescription. It was performed over a period 
of 4 months in different regions of Lebanon. Participants answered a
questionnaire inquiring about socio-demographic characteristics, medical
conditions, symptoms that required medical attention, the doctor's diagnosis, the
prescribed antibiotic, and whether laboratory tests were ordered to identify the 
causative organism or not. Data were analyzed using SPSS 17.
RESULTS: We studied 270 patients (49.3% males and 50.7% females). This study
showed that the most-prescribed antibiotics were the cephalosporins (82%) and
that almost half of the illnesses for which antibiotics were prescribed were
respiratory tract infections (41%). The study also showed that the choice of the 
prescribed antibiotic was appropriate in 61.5% of the studied cases, while the
prescribed dose and the duration of the treatment were inaccurate in 52 and 64%
of the cases, respectively. In addition, fever seemed to be a factor that
influenced the physician's prescriptions, since the choice of drug conformity to 
guidelines increased from 53.7% (1 day of fever) to 88.9% (1 week of fever), and 
the dose prescription compliance to guidelines was higher (55.9%) for patients
suffering from fever compared to those with no fever (38.1%).
CONCLUSION: This study showed a high prevalence of inappropriate antibiotic
prescriptions in Lebanon. Therefore, actions should be taken to optimize
antibiotic prescription.

PMID: 26112266  [PubMed]


128. Glob Health Action. 2015 Jun 24;8:27537. doi: 10.3402/gha.v8.27537. eCollection
2015.

Food security and nutrition in the Russian Federation - a health policy analysis.

Lunze K(1), Yurasova E(2), Idrisov B(3), Gnatienko N(4), Migliorini L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA;
karsten.lunze@post.harvard.edu. (2)World Health Organization, Russian Federation,
Moscow, Russia. (3)Bashkir State Medical University, Ufa, Russia. (4)Department
of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the Russian Federation (Russia), an elevated burden of premature
mortality attributable to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) has been observed
since the country's economic transition. NCDs are largely related to preventable 
risk factors such as unhealthy diets.
OBJECTIVE: This health policy study's aim was to analyze past and current food
production and nutritional trends in Russia and their policy implications for
Russia's NCD burden.
DESIGN: We examined food security and nutrition in Russia using an analytical
framework of food availability, access to food, and consumption.
RESULTS: Agricultural production declined during the period of economic
transition, and nutritional habits changed from high-fat animal products to
starches. However, per-capita energy consumption remained stable due to increased
private expenditures on food and use of private land. Paradoxically, the
prevalence of obesity still increased because of an excess consumption of
unsaturated fat, sugar, and salt on one side, and insufficient intake of fruit
and vegetables on the other.
CONCLUSIONS: Policy and economic reforms in Russia were not accompanied by a food
security crisis or macronutrient deprivation of the population. Yet, unhealthy
diets in contemporary Russia contribute to the burden of NCDs and related
avoidable mortality. Food and nutrition policies in Russia need to specifically
address nutritional shortcomings and food-insecure vulnerable populations.
Appropriate, evidence-informed food and nutrition policies might help address
Russia's burden of NCDs on a population level.

PMID: 26112143  [PubMed - in process]


129. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129138. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129138.
eCollection 2015.

Doxycycline Induces Apoptosis and Inhibits Proliferation and Invasion of Human
Cervical Carcinoma Stem Cells.

Yang B(1), Lu Y(1), Zhang A(1), Zhou A(1), Zhang L(1), Zhang L(1), Gao L(1), Zang
Y(1), Tang X(1), Sun L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology & Obstetrics, People Hospital of Pudong New Area,
Shanghai, 20299, China.

BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are proposed to be responsible for high
recurrence rate in cervical carcinoma. Reagents that can suppress the
proliferation and differentiation of CSCs would provide new opportunities to
fight against tumor recurrence. Doxycycline has been reported as a potential
anti-cancer compound. However, few studies investigated its inhibitory effect
against cervical cancer stem cells.
METHODS: HeLa cells were cultured in cancer stem cell conditional media in a
poly-hema-treated dish. In this non-adhesive culture system, HeLa cells were
treated with cisplatin until some cells survived and formed spheroids, which were
then collected and injected into the immunodeficient mice. Cisplatin was
administered every three days for five times. The tumor xenografts with CSC
enrichment were cultured in cancer stem cell specific medium again to form
tumorsphere, which we called HeLa-CSCs. Expression of cancer stem cell markers in
HeLa-CSCs was measured by flow cytometry and qPCR. HeLa-CSCs were then treated
with doxycycline. Proliferation and differentiation rates were determined by the 
size of spheres formed in vitro and tumor formed in vivo.
RESULTS: We developed a new strategy to selectively enrich CSCs from human
cervical carcinoma cell line HeLa, and these HeLa-CSCs are CD133+/CD49f+ cell
populations with significantly enhanced expression of stem cell markers. When
these HeLa-CSCs were treated with doxycycline, the colony formation,
proliferation, migration and invasion, and differentiation were all suppressed.
Meanwhile, stem cell markers SOX-2, OCT-4, NANOG, NOTCH and BMI-1 decreased in
doxycycline treated cells, so as the surface markers CD133 and CD49f.
Furthermore, proliferation markers Ki67 and PCNA were also decreased by
doxycycline treatment in the in vivo xenograft mouse model.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer stem cells are enriched from sphere-forming and
chemoresistant HeLa-derived tumor xenografts in immunodeficient mice. Doxycycline
inhibits proliferation, invasion, and differentiation, and also induces apoptosis
of these HeLa-CSCs in vitro and in vivo.

PMID: 26111245  [PubMed - in process]


130. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129886. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129886.
eCollection 2015.

Plasma HIV-2 RNA According to CD4 Count Strata among HIV-2-Infected Adults in the
IeDEA West Africa Collaboration.

Ekouévi DK(1), Avettand-Fènoël V(2), Tchounga BK(3), Coffie PA(4), Sawadogo A(5),
Minta D(6), Minga A(7), Eholie SP(8), Plantier JC(9), Damond F(10), Dabis F(11), 
Rouzioux C(2); IeDEA West Africa collaboration.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Bordeaux, ISPED, Centre INSERM U897-
Epidémiologie-Biostatistique, Bordeaux, France; Inserm U897, ISPED, Université de
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Programme PACCI, site de recherche ANRS, Abidjan,
Côte d'Ivoire; Département de Santé Publique, Université de Lomé, Lomé, Togo.
(2)AP-HP, Hôpital Necker Enfants Malades, Laboratoire de Virologie, Paris,
France; Université Paris-Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Faculté de Médecine,
EA7327, Paris, France. (3)Université de Bordeaux, ISPED, Centre INSERM U897-
Epidémiologie-Biostatistique, Bordeaux, France; Inserm U897, ISPED, Université de
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Programme PACCI, site de recherche ANRS, Abidjan,
Côte d'Ivoire. (4)Programme PACCI, site de recherche ANRS, Abidjan, Côte
d'Ivoire; Service des Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, CHU de Treichville,
Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. (5)Hôpital de Jour, Service des Maladies Infectieuses et 
Tropicales, CHU SouroSanou, Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina-Faso. (6)Centre de Prise en
Charge des Personnes vivant avec le VIH, Hôpital du Point G, Bamako, Mali
(service des Maladies Infectieuses). (7)Centre Médical de Suivi de Donneurs de
Sang/CNTS/PRIMO-CI, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. (8)Service des Maladies Infectieuses 
et Tropicales, CHU de Treichville, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. (9)Laboratoire associé
au Centre National de Référence du VIH, hôpital Charles Nicolle, CHU de Rouen,
Rouen, France; GRAM, Equipe d'Accueil 2656, Faculté de Médecine-Pharmacie,
Institut de Recherche et d'Innovation en Biomédecine, Université de Rouen, Rouen,
France. (10)INSERM, IAME, UMR 1137, Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot,
Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Bichat-Claude Bernard,
Laboratoire de Virologie, Paris, France. (11)Université de Bordeaux, ISPED,
Centre INSERM U897- Epidémiologie-Biostatistique, Bordeaux, France; Inserm U897, 
ISPED, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.

BACKGROUND: Plasma HIV-1 RNA monitoring is one of the standard tests for the
management of HIV-1 infection. While HIV-1 RNA can be quantified using several
commercial tests, no test has been commercialized for HIV-2 RNA quantification.
We studied the relationship between plasma HIV-2 viral load (VL) and CD4 count in
West African patients who were either receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) or
treatment-naïve.
METHOD: A cross sectional survey was conducted among HIV-2-infected individuals
followed in three countries in West Africa from March to December 2012. All HIV-2
infected-patients who attended one of the participating clinics were proposed a
plasma HIV-2 viral load measurement. HIV-2 RNA was quantified using the new
ultrasensitive in-house real-time PCR assay with a detection threshold of 10
copies/ mL (cps/mL).
RESULTS: A total of 351 HIV-2-infected individuals participated in this study, of
whom 131 (37.3%) were treatment naïve and 220 (62.7%) had initiated ART. Among
treatment-naïve patients, 60 (46.5%) had undetectable plasma HIV-2 viral load
(<10 cps/mL), it was detectable between 10-100 cps/mL in 35.8%, between 100-1000 
cps/mL in 11.7% and >1000 cps/mL in 6.0% of the patients. Most of the
treatment-naïve patients (70.2%) had CD4-T cell count ≥500 cells/mm3 and 43
(46.7%) of these patients had a detectable VL (≥10 cps/mL). Among the 220
patients receiving ART, the median CD4-T cell count rose from 231 to 393
cells/mm3 (IQR [259-561]) after a median follow-up duration of 38 months and 145 
(66.0%) patients had CD4-T cell count ≤ 500 cells/mm3 with a median viral load of
10 cps/mL (IQR [10-33]). Seventy five (34.0%) patients had CD4-T cell count ≥ 500
cells/mm3, among them 14 (18.7%) had a VL between 10-100 cps/mL and 2 (2.6%) had 
VL >100 cps/mL.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that the combination of CD4-T cell count and
ultrasensitive HIV-2 viral load quantification with a threshold of 10 cps/mL,
could improve ART initiation among treatment naïve HIV-2-infected patients and
the monitoring of ART response among patients receiving treatment.

PMID: 26111242  [PubMed - in process]


131. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130731. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130731.
eCollection 2015.

Effects of a 12-Week Hatha Yoga Intervention on Metabolic Risk and Quality of
Life in Hong Kong Chinese Adults with and without Metabolic Syndrome.

Lau C(1), Yu R(1), Woo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of a 12-week Hatha yoga intervention to
improve metabolic risk profiles and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in
Chinese adults with and without metabolic syndrome (MetS).
METHODS: We conducted a controlled trial within an university-affiliated
hospital. 173 Chinese men and women aged 18 or above were assigned to either the 
yoga intervention group (n = 87) or the control group (n = 86). Primary outcomes 
included 12-week change in metabolic risk factors and MetS z score. Secondary
outcome was HRQoL (Medical Outcomes Short Form Survey at 12 weeks).
RESULTS: The mean age of participants was 52.0 (SD 7.4, range 31-71) years.
Analysis involving the entire study population revealed that the yoga group
achieved greater decline in waist circumference (p<0.001), fasting glucose
(p<0.01), triglycerides (p<0.05), and MetS z score (p<0.01). Yoga training also
improved general health perceptions (p<0.01), physical component score (p<0.01), 
and social functioning (p<0.01) domains score of HRQoL. However, no significant
differences between groups were observed in the mean change of systolic/diastolic
blood pressures or high-density lipid protein cholesterol (all p>0.05). There
were no significant differences in the intervention effects on waist
circumference and MetS z score between the MetS subgroups (both p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: A 12-week Hatha yoga intervention improves metabolic risk profiles
and HRQoL in Chinese adults with and without MetS.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
ACTRN12613000816752.

PMID: 26111165  [PubMed - in process]


132. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S8. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

Conditional entropy in variation-adjusted windows detects selection signatures
associated with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs).

Handelman SK, Seweryn M, Smith RM, Hartmann K, Wang D, Pietrzak M, Johnson AD,
Kloczkowski A, Sadee W.

BACKGROUND: Over the past 50,000 years, shifts in human-environmental or
human-human interactions shaped genetic differences within and among human
populations, including variants under positive selection. Shaped by environmental
factors, such variants influence the genetics of modern health, disease, and
treatment outcome. Because evolutionary processes tend to act on gene regulation,
we test whether regulatory variants are under positive selection. We introduce a 
new approach to enhance detection of genetic markers undergoing positive
selection, using conditional entropy to capture recent local selection signals.
Results We use conditional logistic regression to compare our Adjusted Haplotype 
Conditional Entropy (H|H) measure of positive selection to existing positive
selection measures. H|H and existing measures were applied to published
regulatory variants acting in cis (cis-eQTLs), with conditional logistic
regression testing whether regulatory variants undergo stronger positive
selection than the surrounding gene.
CONCLUSIONS: Our new method, H|H, provides a consistently more robust signal
associated with cis-eQTLs compared to existing methods. We interpret this to
indicate that some cis-eQTLs are under positive selection compared to their
surrounding genes. Conditional entropy indicative of a selective sweep is an
especially strong predictor of eQTLs for genes in several biological processes of
medical interest. Where conditional entropy is a weak or negative predictor of
eQTLs, such as innate immune genes, this would be consistent with balancing
selection acting on such eQTLs over long time periods. Different measures of
selection may be needed for variant prioritization under other modes of
evolutionary selection.

PMID: 26111110  [PubMed - in process]


133. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129835. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129835.
eCollection 2015.

TAFFYS: An Integrated Tool for Comprehensive Analysis of Genomic Aberrations in
Tumor Samples.

Liu Y(1), Li A(2), Feng H(1), Wang M(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Information Science and Technology, University of Science and
Technology of China, Hefei, AH230027, China. (2)School of Information Science and
Technology, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, AH230027,
China; Research centres for Biomedical Engineering, University of Science and
Technology of China, Hefei, AH230027, China.

BACKGROUND: Tumor single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array is a common platform
for investigating the cancer genomic aberration and the functionally important
altered genes. Original SNP array signals are usually corrupted by noise, and
need to be de-convoluted into absolute copy number profile by analytical methods.
Unfortunately, in contrast with the popularity of tumor Affymetrix SNP array, the
methods that are specifically designed for this platform are still limited. The
complicated characteristics of noise in signals is one of the difficulties for
dissecting tumor Affymetrix SNP array data, as they inevitably blur the
distinction between aberrations and create an obstacle for the copy number
aberration (CNA) identification.
RESULTS: We propose a tool named TAFFYS for comprehensive analysis of tumor
Affymetrix SNP array data. TAFFYS introduce a wavelet-based de-noising approach
and copy number-specific signal variance model for suppressing and modelling the 
noise in signals. Then a hidden Markov model is employed for copy number
inference. Finally, by using the absolute copy number profile, statistical
significance of each aberration region is calculated in term of different
aberration types, including amplification, deletion and loss of heterozygosity
(LOH). The result shows that copy number specific-variance model and wavelet
de-noising algorithm fits well with the Affymetrix SNP array signals, leading to 
more accurate estimation for diluted tumor sample (even with only 30% of cancer
cells) than other existed methods. Results of examinations also demonstrate a
good compatibility and extensibility for different Affymetrix SNP array
platforms. Application on the 35 breast tumor samples shows that TAFFYS can
automatically dissect the tumor samples and reveal statistically significant
aberration regions where cancer-related genes locate.
CONCLUSIONS: TAFFYS provide an efficient and convenient tool for identifying the 
copy number alteration and allelic imbalance and assessing the recurrent
aberrations for the tumor Affymetrix SNP array data.

PMID: 26111017  [PubMed - in process]


134. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131196. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131196.
eCollection 2015.

Emergency Department Presentations following Tropical Cyclone Yasi.

Aitken P(1), Franklin RC(2), Lawlor J(1), Mitchell R(1), Watt K(3), Furyk J(1),
Small N(4), Lovegrove L(4), Leggat P(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook
University, Queensville, Townsville, Australia; Emergency Department, The
Townsville Hospital, Townsville, Queensville, Australia. (2)College of Public
Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook University, Queensville,
Townsville, Australia; Royal Life Saving Society - Australia, Sydney, Australia. 
(3)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook
University, Queensville, Townsville, Australia. (4)Emergency Department, The
Townsville Hospital, Townsville, Queensville, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Emergency departments see an increase in cases during cyclones. The
aim of this study is to describe patient presentations to the Emergency
Department (ED) of a tertiary level hospital (Townsville) following a tropical
cyclone (Yasi). Specific areas of focus include changes in: patient demographics 
(age and gender), triage categories, and classification of diseases.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the Townsville Hospitals ED information system 
(EDIS) for three periods in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to coincide with formation of
Cyclone Yasi (31 January 2011) to six days after Yasi crossed the coast line (8
February 2012). The analysis explored the changes in ICD10-AM 4-character
classification and presented at the Chapter level.
RESULTS: There was a marked increase in the number of patients attending the ED
during Yasi, particularly those aged over 65 years with a maximum daily
attendance of 372 patients on 4 Feb 2011. The most marked increases were in:
Triage categories - 4 and 5; and ICD categories - diseases of the skin and
subcutaneous tissue (L00-L99), and factors influencing health care status
(Z00-Z99). The most common diagnostic presentation across all years was injury
(S00-T98).
DISCUSSION: There was an increase in presentations to the ED of TTH, which peaked
in the first 24 - 48 hours following the cyclone and returned to normal over a
five-day period. The changes in presentations were mostly an amplification of
normal attendance patterns with some altered areas of activity. Injury patterns
are similar to overseas experience.

PMID: 26111010  [PubMed - in process]


135. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130830. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130830.
eCollection 2015.

The Additive Inflammatory In Vivo and In Vitro Effects of IL-7 and TSLP in
Arthritis Underscore the Therapeutic Rationale for Dual Blockade.

Hillen MR(1), Hartgring SA(1), Willis CR(2), Radstake TR(1), Hack CE(1), Lafeber 
FP(3), van Roon JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology & Clinical Immunology, University Medical Center
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands; Laboratory of Translational Immunology,
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. (2)Inflammation Lab,
Amgen Inc., Seattle, Washington, United States of America. (3)Department of
Rheumatology & Clinical Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht,
The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The cytokines interleukin (IL)-7 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin
(TSLP) signal through the IL-7R subunit and play proinflammatory roles in
experimental arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We evaluated the effect of 
inhibition of IL-7R- and TSLPR-signalling as well as simultaneous inhibition of
IL-7R- and TSLPR-signalling in murine experimental arthritis. In addition, the
effects of IL-7 and TSLP in human RA dendritic cell (DC)/T-cell co-cultures were 
studied.
METHODS: Arthritis was induced with proteoglycan in wildtype mice (WT) and in
mice deficient for the TSLP receptor subunit (TSLPR-/-). Both mice genotypes were
treated with anti-IL-7R or phosphate buffered saline. Arthritis severity was
assessed and local and circulating cytokines were measured. Autologous
CD1c-positive DCs and CD4 T-cells were isolated from peripheral blood of RA
patients and were co-cultured in the presence of IL-7, TSLP or both and
proliferation and cytokine production were assessed.
RESULTS: Arthritis severity and immunopathology were decreased in WT mice treated
with anti-IL-7R, in TSLPR-/- mice, and the most robustly in TSLPR-/- mice treated
with anti-IL-7R. This was associated with strongly decreased levels of IL-17,
IL-6 and CD40L. In human DC/T-cell co-cultures, TSLP and IL-7 additively
increased T-cell proliferation and production of Th17-associated cytokines,
chemokines and tissue destruction factors.
CONCLUSION: TSLP and IL-7 have an additive effect on the production of
Th17-cytokines in a human in vitro model, and enhance arthritis in mice linked
with enhanced inflammation and immunopathology. As both cytokines signal via the 
IL-7R, these data urge for IL-7R-targeting to prevent the activity of both
cytokines in RA.

PMID: 26110994  [PubMed - in process]


136. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S6. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S6. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

NET-GE: a novel NETwork-based Gene Enrichment for detecting biological processes 
associated to Mendelian diseases.

Di Lena P, Martelli PL, Fariselli P, Casadio R.

BACKGROUND: Enrichment analysis is a widely applied procedure for shedding light 
on the molecular mechanisms and functions at the basis of phenotypes, for
enlarging the dataset of possibly related genes/proteins and for helping
interpretation and prioritization of newly determined variations. Several
standard and Network-based enrichment methods are available. Both approaches rely
on the annotations that characterize the genes/proteins included in the input
set; network based ones also include in different ways physical and functional
relationships among different genes or proteins that can be extracted from the
available biological networks of interactions.
RESULTS: Here we describe a novel procedure based on the extraction from the
STRING interactome of sub-networks connecting proteins that share the same Gene
Ontology(GO) terms for Biological Process (BP). Enrichment analysis is performed 
by mapping the protein set to be analyzed on the sub-networks, and then by
collecting the corresponding annotations. We test the ability of our enrichment
method in finding annotation terms disregarded by other enrichment methods
available. We benchmarked 244 sets of proteins associated to different Mendelian 
diseases, according to the OMIM web resource. In 143 cases (58%), the
network-based procedure extracts GO terms neglected by the standard method, and
in 86 cases (35%), some of the newly enriched GO terms are not included in the
set of annotations characterizing the input proteins. We present in detail six
cases where our network-based enrichment provides an insight into the biological 
basis of the diseases, outperforming other freely available network-based
methods.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering a set of proteins in the context of their interaction
network can help in better defining their functions. Our novel method exploits
the information contained in the STRING database for building the minimal
connecting network containing all the proteins annotated with the same GO term.
The enrichment procedure is performed considering the GO-specific network modules
and, when tested on the OMIM-derived benchmark sets, it is able to extract
enrichment terms neglected by other methods. Our procedure is effective even when
the size of the input protein set is small, requiring at least two input
proteins.

PMID: 26110971  [PubMed - in process]


137. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130715. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130715.
eCollection 2015.

Indoleamine 2,3 Dioxygenase (IDO) Expression and Activity in Relapsing- Remitting
Multiple Sclerosis.

Mancuso R(1), Hernis A(1), Agostini S(1), Rovaris M(1), Caputo D(1), Fuchs D(2), 
Clerici M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Don C. Gnocchi Foundation ONLUS, Piazza Morandi 3, 20100, Milan, Italy.
(2)Division of Biological Chemistry, Biocenter, Innsbruck Medical University,
Innrain 80-82, A-6020, Innsbruck, Austria. (3)Don C. Gnocchi Foundation ONLUS,
Piazza Morandi 3, 20100, Milan, Italy; Department of Physiopathology and
Transplantation, University of Milano, Via Fratelli Cervi 93, 20090, Segrate,
Milano, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Interferon gamma (IFN-γ) production induces the transcription of
indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO) resulting in the reduction of T-cell activation
and proliferation through the depletion of tryptophan and the elicitation of Treg
lymphocytes. IDO was shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune
diseases; we investigated whether changes in IDO gene expression and activity
could be indicative of onset of relapse in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.
METHODS: IDO and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) gene expression, serum IDO activity
(Kynurenine/Tryptophan ratio) and serum neopterin concentration - a protein
released by macrophages upon IFN-γ stimulation - were measured in 51 individuals:
36 relapsing remitting (RR)-MS patients (21 in acute phase -AMS, 15 in stable
phase -SMS) and 15 healthy controls (HC). PBMCs samples in AMS patients were
collected before (BT-AMS) and during glucocorticoids-based therapy (DT-AMS).
RESULTS: IDO expression was increased and IFN-γ was decreased (p<0.001) in BT-AMS
compared to SMS patients. Glucocorticoids-induced disease remission resulted in a
significant reduction of IDO and IFN-γ gene expression, IDO catalytic activity
(p<0.001). Serum neopterin concentration followed the same trend as IDO
expression and activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of IDO gene expression and activity in blood could be a 
useful marker to monitor the clinical course of RR-MS. Therapeutic interventions 
modulating IDO activity may be beneficial in MS.

PMID: 26110930  [PubMed - in process]


138. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130604. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130604.
eCollection 2015.

Center Variation in Intestinal Microbiota Prior to Late-Onset Sepsis in Preterm
Infants.

Taft DH(1), Ambalavanan N(2), Schibler KR(3), Yu Z(4), Newburg DS(4), Deshmukh
H(3), Ward DV(5), Morrow AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Institute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio, United 
States of America; Department of Environmental Health, University of Cincinnati, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, United States of America. (2)Pediatrics, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America. (3)Perinatal
Institute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio, United States of
America. (4)Biology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, United States 
of America. (5)Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of
America.

OBJECTIVE: Late onset sepsis (LOS) contributes to mortality and morbidity in
preterm infants. We tested the hypotheses that microbes causing LOS originate
from the gut, and that distortions in the gut microbial community increases
subsequent risk of LOS.
STUDY DESIGN: We examined the gut microbial community in prospectively collected 
stool samples from preterm infants with LOS and an equal number of age-matched
controls at two sites (Cincinnati, OH and Birmingham, AL), by sequencing the
bacterial 16S rDNA. We confirmed our findings in a subset of infants by whole
genome shotgun sequencing, and analyzed the data using R and LEfSe.
RESULTS: Infants with LOS in Cincinnati, as compared to controls, had less
abundant Actinobacteria in the first samples after birth (median 18 days before
sepsis onset), and less abundant Pseudomonadales in the last samples collected
prior to LOS (median 8 days before sepsis onset). Infants with LOS in Birmingham,
as compared to controls, had no differences identified in the first sample
microbial communities, but Lactobacillales was less abundant in the last samples 
prior to LOS (median 4 days before sepsis onset). Sequencing identified
detectable levels of the sepsis-causative organism in stool samples prior to
disease onset for 82% of LOS cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Translocation of gut microbes may account for the majority of LOS
cases. Distortions in the fecal microbiota occur prior to LOS, but the form of
distortion depends on timing and site. The microbial composition of fecal samples
does not predict LOS onset in a generalizable fashion.

PMID: 26110908  [PubMed - in process]


139. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129766. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129766.
eCollection 2015.

The Value of Intraoperative Near-Infrared Fluorescence Imaging Based on Enhanced 
Permeability and Retention of Indocyanine Green: Feasibility and False-Positives 
in Ovarian Cancer.

Tummers QR(1), Hoogstins CE(1), Peters AA(2), de Kroon CD(2), Trimbos JB(2), van 
de Velde CJ(1), Frangioni JV(3), Vahrmeijer AL(1), Gaarenstroom KN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands. (2)Department of Gynecology, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Medicine, Division of
Hematology/Oncology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States of America; Department of Radiology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America; Curadel, LLC, Worcester,
Massachusetts, United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: In ovarian cancer, two of the most important prognostic factors for
survival are completeness of staging and completeness of cytoreductive surgery.
Therefore, intra-operative visualization of tumor lesions is of great importance.
Preclinical data already demonstrated tumor visualization in a mouse-model using 
near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging and indocyanine green (ICG) as a result 
of enhanced permeability and retention (EPR). The aim of this study was to
determine feasibility of intraoperative ovarian cancer metastases imaging using
NIR fluorescence imaging and ICG in a clinical setting.
METHODS: Ten patients suspected of ovarian cancer scheduled for staging or
cytoreductive surgery were included. Patients received 20 mg ICG intravenously
after opening the abdominal cavity. The mini-FLARE NIR fluorescence imaging
system was used to detect NIR fluorescent lesions.
RESULTS: 6 out of 10 patients had malignant disease of the ovary or fallopian
tube, of which 2 had metastatic disease outside the pelvis. Eight metastatic
lesions were detected in these 2 patients, which were all NIR fluorescent.
However, 13 non-malignant lesions were also NIR fluorescent, resulting in a
false-positive rate of 62%. There was no significant difference in
tumor-to-background ratio between malignant and benign lesions (2.0 vs 2.0;
P=0.99).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first clinical trial demonstrating intraoperative
detection of ovarian cancer metastases using NIR fluorescence imaging and ICG.
Despite detection of all malignant lesions, a high false-positive rate was
observed. Therefore, NIR fluorescence imaging using ICG based on the EPR effect
is not satisfactory for the detection of ovarian cancer metastases. The need for 
tumor-specific intraoperative agents remains.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN16945066.

PMID: 26110901  [PubMed - in process]


140. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130946. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130946.
eCollection 2015.

Statin Treatment and Mortality in Community-Dwelling Frail Older Patients with
Diabetes Mellitus: A Retrospective Observational Study.

Pilotto A(1), Panza F(2), Copetti M(3), Simonato M(4), Sancarlo D(5), Gallina
P(6), Strandberg T(7); MPI_AGE Project Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Department of OrthoGeriatrics, Rehabilitation and Stabilization, Frailty Area,
E.O. Galliera Hospital, National Relevance and High Specialization Hospital,
Genova, Italy; Geriatrics Unit, Azienda ULSS 16 Padova, S. Antonio Hospital,
Padova, Italy. (2)Neurodegenerative Disease Unit, Department of Basic Medicine,
Neuroscience, and Sense Organs, University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy;
Gerontology-Geriatrics Research Laboratory, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza,
San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy. (3)Unit of Biostatistics, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della 
Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia, Italy. (4)Geriatrics Unit, Azienda ULSS
16 Padova, S. Antonio Hospital, Padova, Italy. (5)Gerontology-Geriatrics Research
Laboratory, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy.
(6)Health Directorate, Azienda ULSS 16, Padova, Italy. (7)Geriatric Clinic,
Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland; Institute of
Health Sciences/Geriatrics, University of Oulu, and Oulu University Hospital,
Oulu, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Older adults are often excluded from clinical trials. Decision making
for administration of statins to older patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) is
under debate, particularly in frail older patients with comorbidity and high
mortality risk. We tested the hypothesis that statin treatment in older patients 
with DM was differentially effective across strata of mortality risk assessed by 
the Multidimensional Prognostic Index (MPI), based on information collected with 
the Standardized Multidimensional Assessment Schedule for Adults and Aged Persons
(SVaMA).
METHODS: In this retrospective observational study, we estimated the mortality
risk in 1712 community-dwelling subjects with DM ≥ 65 years who underwent a SVaMA
evaluation to establish accessibility to homecare services/nursing home admission
from 2005 to 2013 in the Padova Health District, Italy. Mild (MPI-SVaMA-1),
moderate (MPI-SVaMA-2), and high (MPI-SVaMA-3) risk of mortality at baseline and 
propensity score-adjusted hazard ratios (HR) of three-year mortality were
calculated according to statin treatment.
RESULTS: Higher MPI-SVaMA scores were associated with lower rates of statin
treatment (MPI-SVaMA-1 = 39% vs MPI-SVaMA-2 = 36% vs MPI-SVaMA-3 = 24.9%.
p<0.001) and higher three-year mortality (MPI-SVaMA-1 = 12.9% vs MPI-SVaMA-2 =
24% vs MPI-SVaMA-3 = 34.4%, p<0.001). After adjustment for propensity score
quintiles, statin treatment was significantly associated with lower three-year
mortality irrespective of MPI-SVaMA group (interaction test p = 0.303). HRs [95% 
confidence interval (CI)] were 0.19 (0.14-0.27), 0.28 (0.21-0.36), and 0.26
(0.20-0.34) in the MPI-SVaMA-1, MPI-SVaMA-2, and MPI-SVaMA-3 groups,
respectively. Subgroup analyses showed that statin treatment was also beneficial 
irrespective of age. HRs (95% CI) were 0.21 (0.15-0.31), 0.26 (0.20-0.33), and
0.26 (0.20-0.35) among patients aged 65-74, 75-84, and ≥ 85 years, respectively
(interaction test p=0.812).
CONCLUSIONS: Statin treatment was significantly associated with reduced
three-year mortality independently of age and multidimensional impairment in
community-dwelling frail older patients with DM.

PMID: 26110884  [PubMed - in process]


141. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0128889. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128889.
eCollection 2015.

Effects of Tumour Necrosis Factor Antagonists on Insulin Sensitivity/Resistance
in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Burska AN(1), Sakthiswary R(2), Sattar N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Leeds Institute of Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Medicine, University of
Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom. (2)Department of Medicine, University Kebangsaan
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (3)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Beyond the joints, TNFi (tumour necrosis factor inhibitor) therapy may
confer systemic benefits in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Several studies have
investigated the role of TNFi on insulin resistance/sensitivity (IR/IS). This
question is of general interest given the emerging evidence linking inflammation 
and insulin resistance. The main aim of this review was to summarise the
published data and to determine the effects of TNFi on IR/IS.
METHODS: We searched the PubMed and ISI Web of Knowledge databases for studies
which examined the effects of TNFi on IR/IS. The studies were assessed
independently by two reviewers according to a pre-specified protocol. The data on
Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin resistance (HOMA) and Quantitative
Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI) were pooled and reported as standard
difference in means (SDM) with 95% confidence interval (CI) using a
random-effects model.
RESULTS: A total of eight studies with 260 subjects met the selection criteria.
The duration of the studies was from 8 weeks to 12 months. There was
statistically significant reduction in HOMA index in six out of eight studies and
four reported significant increment in QUICKI. The pooled analysis revealed
significant reduction in HOMA [SDM-0.148, 95%CI[-0.278 to -0.017], p=0.026] and
increment in QUICKI [SDM 0.312, 95%CI[0.019 to 0.606], p=0.037] with TNFi.
CONCLUSION: There is emerging evidence to support that TNFi therapy improves IS
and reduces IR in RA. Further, well conducted trials are needed to determine if
such effects translate to lower incidence of diabetes in RA or other autoimmune
conditions on biologic therapy.

PMID: 26110878  [PubMed - in process]


142. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131060. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131060.
eCollection 2015.

Association between DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA Polymorphism and Susceptibility with
Tourette Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis.

Yuan A(1), Su L(2), Yu S(3), Li C(2), Yu T(4), Sun J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China; Center for Translational
Neuromedicine and the Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, New York, United States of America. (2)Shanghai Key Laboratory
of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of Genetics,
Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China. (4)Bio-X Center, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of
Developmental and Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. (5)Department of Medical Psychology,
Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China;
Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Shanghai Mental Health Center,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Genetic factors are important in the pathogenesis of Tourette
syndrome (TS). Notably, Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) gene has been suggested as a 
possible candidate gene for this disorder. Several studies have demonstrated that
DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA polymorphism is associated with an increased risk of developing 
TS. However, past results remain conflicting. We addressed this controversy by
performing a meta-analysis of the relationship between DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA
polymorphism and TS.
METHODS: Literature was searched in multiple databases including PUBMED, COCHRANE
and WEB OF SCIENCE up to July 2014. The number of the genotypes for DRD2/ANKK1
TaqIA in the TS and control subjects was extracted and statistical analysis was
performed using Review Manager 5.0.16 and Stata 12.0 software. Summary odds
ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs) were utilized to calculate the
risk of TS with DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA. Stratified analysis based on ethnicity was also
conducted.
RESULTS: 523 patients with TS, 564 controls and 87 probands plus 152 relatives
from five published studies were finally involved in this meta-analysis. Combined
analysis revealed that the overall ORs for the DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA A1 allele were
1.69 (95%CIs = 1.42-2.00) in the fixed-effect model and 1.66 (95%CIs = 1.33-2.08)
in the random-effects model. Stratification by ethnicity indicated the TaqIA A1
allele was significantly associated with TS in Caucasians (fixed-effect model:
OR=1.75, 95%CI = 1.43-2.16; random-effect model: OR=1.69, 95%CI = 1.25-2.28) and 
in Asians (OR=1.54, 95%CI = 1.12-2.10). Meta-analysis of the A1A1 vs. A2A2
(homozygous model), A1A2 vs. A2A2 (heterozygous model) and A1A1+A1A2 vs. A2A2
(dominant model) of this polymorphism revealed a significant association with TS 
in overall populations and Caucasians.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis suggested that the DRD2/ANKK1 TaqIA polymorphism 
might contribute to TS susceptibility, especially in Caucasian population.
However, further investigation with a larger number of worldwide studies should
be conducted to verify the association.

PMID: 26110876  [PubMed - in process]


143. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130714. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130714.
eCollection 2015.

Estimation of Potential Availability of Essential Oil in Some Brands of Herbal
Teas and Herbal Dietary Supplements.

Kowalski R(1), Baj T(2), Kowalska G(3), Pankiewicz U(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Analysis and Evaluation of Food Quality, University of Life
Sciences in Lublin, Lublin, Poland; Institute of Agrophysics, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Lublin, Poland. (2)Department of Pharmacognosy with Medicinal Plant
Unit, Medical University in Lublin, Lublin, Poland. (3)Central Laboratory of
Agroecology, University of Life Sciences in Lublin, Lublin, Poland. (4)Department
of Analysis and Evaluation of Food Quality, University of Life Sciences in
Lublin, Lublin, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to estimate potential availability of
essential oil in some brands of herbal products.
METHODS: A comparison was performed on the basis of the essential oil yield in
the unprocessed raw materials such as leaves of peppermint and lemon balm and
inflorescence of chamomile as well as herbal tea bags and in dietary supplements.
The yield of essential oil was determined by distillation. Essential oil was
analyzed by GC-FID and GC-MS.
RESULTS: It was found that the average potential availability of essential oils
in the products such as dietary supplements for the doses recommended by the
producers is lower than in the corresponding tea infusions: for peppermint
formulations approximately 6-fold lower, for the formulations with lemon balm
about 4-fold lower, and for the chamomile preparations about 3-fold lower. It was
found that essential oils extracted from herbal teas have a similar chemical
profile with characteristic deviations in the amount of individual components,
which arise from the origin of the raw material.
DISCUSSION: In contrast to homogenous pharmaceutical herbal mixtures consistent
with, the Pharmacopoeia requirements, herbal teas (available in grocery stores)
and dietary supplements are often out of control in terms of the yield and
composition of the essential oil, which is primarily responsible for the health
benefits and aromatic qualities of these products. Analysis of the composition of
the dietary supplements showed that they contain on average significantly lower
amounts of plant material compared to the herbal teas.

PMID: 26110869  [PubMed - in process]


144. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131715. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131715.
eCollection 2015.

Religion and Completed Suicide: a Meta-Analysis.

Wu A(1), Wang JY(2), Jia CX(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, United States of
America. (2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Shandong
University, Jinan, China. (3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
Shandong University, Jinan, China; Center for Suicide Prevention Research,
Shandong University, Jinan, China.

INTRODUCTION: Suicide is a major public health concern and a leading cause of
death around the world. How religion influences the risk of completed suicide in 
different settings across the world requires clarification in order to best
inform suicide prevention strategies.
METHODS: A meta-analysis using search results from Pubmed and Web of Science
databases was conducted following PRISMA protocol and using the keywords
"religion" or "religious" or "religiosity" or "spiritual" or "spirituality" plus 
"suicide" or "suicidality" or "suicide attempt". Random and fixed effects models 
were used to generate pooled ORs and I2 values. Sub-analyses were conducted among
the following categories: young age (<45yo), older age (≥45yo), western culture, 
eastern culture, and religious homogeneity.
RESULTS: Nine studies that altogether evaluated 2339 suicide cases and 5252
comparison participants met all selection criteria and were included in the
meta-analysis. The meta-analysis suggested an overall protective effect of
religiosity from completed suicide with a pooled OR of 0.38 (95% CI: 0.21-0.71)
and I2 of 91%. Sub-analyses similarly revealed significant protective effects for
studies performed in western cultures (OR = 0.29, 95% CI: 0.18-0.46), areas with 
religious homogeneity (OR = 0.18, 95% CI: 0.13-0.26), and among older populations
(OR = 0.42, 95% CI: 0.21-0.84). High heterogeneity of our meta-analysis was
attributed to three studies in which the methods varied from the other six.
CONCLUSION: Religion plays a protective role against suicide in a majority of
settings where suicide research is conducted. However, this effect varies based
on the cultural and religious context. Therefore, public health professionals
need to strongly consider the current social and religious atmosphere of a given 
population when designing suicide prevention strategies.

PMID: 26110867  [PubMed - in process]


145. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0126614. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126614.
eCollection 2015.

Retropupillary Fixation of Iris-Claw Intraocular Lens for Aphakic Eyes in
Children.

Brandner M(1), Thaler-Saliba S(1), Plainer S(2), Vidic B(1), El-Shabrawi Y(2),
Ardjomand N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University Graz, Graz, Austria.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital Klagenfurt, Klagenfurt, Austria.

PURPOSE: To report outcome, complications and safety of retropupillary fixated
iris-claw intraocular lenses in a pediatric population.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten consecutive pediatric patients (15 eyes) underwent
placement of retropupillary fixated iris-claw intraocular lenses between October 
2007 and July 2013 at the Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University Graz
and General Hospital Klagenfurt, Austria. Postoperative visual acuity and
complications were analyzed.
RESULTS: Median final best-corrected visual acuity improved by 0.12 logMAR from
preoperative baseline. Mean postoperative spherical equivalent was -0.05 ± 1.76
D. No serious complications were observed intra- or postoperatively during the
entire follow-up period of up to 40 months. One patient experienced a haptic
disenclavation with IOL subluxation immediately after a car accident.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that iris-claw intraocular lens implantation
behind the iris is safe in children with lack of capsular support and yields
excellent visual outcome with low complication rate.

PMID: 26110864  [PubMed - in process]


146. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130290. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130290.
eCollection 2015.

Shank Muscle Strength Training Changes Foot Behaviour during a Sudden Ankle
Supination.

Hagen M(1), Lescher S(2), Gerhardt A(1), Lahner M(3), Felber S(4), Hennig EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomechanics Laboratory, Institute of Sport and Movement Sciences, University 
Duisburg Essen, Essen, Germany. (2)Institute of Neuroradiology, University of
Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany. (3)Department of Orthopaedic Sports Surgery, St.
Josef-Hospital, Ruhr-University Bochum, Bochum, Germany. (4)Institute for
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Neuroradiology and Nuclear Medicine,
Stiftungsklinikum Mittelrhein Koblenz, Koblenz, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The peroneal muscles are the most effective lateral stabilisers whose
tension braces the ankle joint complex against excessive supination. The purpose 
of this study was to identify the morphological and biomechanical effects of two 
machine-based shank muscle training methods.
METHODS: Twenty-two healthy male recreationally active sports students performed 
ten weeks of single-set high resistance strength training with 3 training
sessions per week. The subjects conducted subtalar pronator/supinator muscle
training (ST) with the right leg by using a custom-made apparatus; the left foot 
muscles were exercised with machine-based talocrural plantar and dorsiflexor
training (TT). Muscle strength (MVIC), muscle volume and foot biomechanics
(rearfoot motion, ground reaction forces, muscle reaction times) during a sudden 
ankle supination were recorded before and after the intervention.
RESULTS: Compared to TT, ST resulted in significantly higher pronator (14% vs.
8%, P<0.01) and supinator MVIC (25% vs. 12%, P<0.01). During sudden foot
inversions, both ST and TT resulted in reduced supination velocity (-12%;
P<0.01). The muscle reaction onset time was faster after the training in peroneus
longus (PL) (P<0.01). Muscle volume of PL (P<0.01) and TA (P<0.01) increased
significantly after both ST and TT.
CONCLUSION: After both ST and TT, the ankle joint complex is mechanically more
stabilised against sudden supinations due to the muscle volume increase of PL and
TA. As the reduced supination velocities indicate, the strength training effects 
are already present during free-fall. According to a sudden ankle supination in
standing position, both machine-based dorsiflexor and pronator strength training 
is recommended for enhancing the mechanical stability of the ankle.

PMID: 26110847  [PubMed - in process]


147. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S5. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

Bioinformatics analysis of thousands of TCGA tumors to determine the involvement 
of epigenetic regulators in human cancer.

Gnad F, Doll S, Manning G, Arnott D, Zhang Z.

BACKGROUND: Many cancer cells show distorted epigenetic landscapes. The Cancer
Genome Atlas (TCGA) project profiles thousands of tumors, allowing the discovery 
of somatic alterations in the epigenetic machinery and the identification of
potential cancer drivers among members of epigenetic protein families.
METHODS: We integrated mutation, expression, and copy number data from 5943
tumors from 13 cancer types to train a classification model that predicts the
likelihood of being an oncogene (OG), tumor suppressor (TSG) or neutral gene
(NG). We applied this predictor to epigenetic regulator genes (ERGs), and used
differential expression and correlation network analysis to identify dysregulated
ERGs along with co-expressed cancer genes. Furthermore, we quantified global
proteomic changes by mass spectrometry after EZH2 inhibition.
RESULTS: Mutation-based classifiers uncovered the OG-like profile of DNMT3A and
TSG-like profiles for several ERGs. Differential gene expression and correlation 
network analyses revealed that EZH2 is the most significantly over-expressed ERG 
in cancer and is co-regulated with a cell cycle network. Proteomic analysis
showed that EZH2 inhibition induced down-regulation of cell cycle regulators in
lymphoma cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Using classical driver genes to train an OG/TSG predictor, we
determined the most predictive features at the gene level. Our predictor
uncovered one OG and several TSGs among ERGs. Expression analyses elucidated
multiple dysregulated ERGs including EZH2 as member of a co-expressed cell cycle 
network.

PMID: 26110843  [PubMed - in process]


148. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131578. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131578.
eCollection 2015.

Geographic Analysis of Urologist Density and Prostate Cancer Mortality in the
United States.

Yao N(1), Foltz SM(1), Odisho AY(2), Wheeler DC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Healthcare Policy and Research, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, VA, United States of America. (2)Department of Urology,
Helen Diller Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States of America. (3)Department of
Biostatistics, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, United States of
America.

CONTEXT: Financial and demographic pressures in US require an understanding of
the most efficient distribution of physicians to maximize population-level health
benefits. Prior work has assumed a constant negative relationship between
physician supply and mortality outcomes throughout the US and has not addressed
regional variation.
METHODS: In this ecological analysis, geographically weighted regression was used
to identify spatially varying relationships between local urologist density and
prostate cancer mortality at the county level. Data from 1,492 counties in 30
eastern and southern states from 2006-2010 were analyzed.
FINDINGS: The ordinary least squares (OLS) regression found that, on average,
increasing urologist density by 1 urologist per 100,000 people resulted in an
expected decrease in prostate cancer mortality of -0.499 deaths per 100,000 men
(95% CI -0.709 to -0.289, p-value < 0.001), or a 1.5% decrease. Geographic
weighted regression demonstrated that the addition of one urologist per 100,000
people in counties in the southern Mississippi River states of Arkansas,
Mississippi, and Louisiana, as well as parts of Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin 
is associated with decrease of 0.411 to 0.916 in prostate cancer mortality per
100,000 men (1.6-3.6%). In contrast, the urologist density was not significantly 
associated with the prostate state mortality in the new England region.
CONCLUSIONS: The strength of association between urologist density and prostate
cancer mortality varied regionally. Those areas with the highest potential for
effects could be targeted for increasing the supply of urologists, as it
associated with the largest predicted improvement in prostate cancer mortality.

PMID: 26110832  [PubMed - in process]


149. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0128861. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128861.
eCollection 2015.

Breast Tissue Composition and Immunophenotype and Its Relationship with
Mammographic Density in Women at High Risk of Breast Cancer.

Pang JM(1), Byrne DJ(2), Takano EA(2), Jene N(2), Petelin L(3), McKinley J(3),
Poliness C(4), Saunders C(5), Taylor D(5), Mitchell G(6), Fox SB(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia; Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (2)Department of Pathology, Peter MacCallum
Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (3)Familial Cancer Centre,
Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (4)Department
of Surgical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. (5)School of Surgery University of Western Australia, Crawley, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia; Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western Australia,
Australia. (6)Familial Cancer Centre, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (7)Department
of Pathology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;
Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia; Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

AIM: To investigate the cellular and immunophenotypic basis of mammographic
density in women at high risk of breast cancer.
METHODS: Mammograms and targeted breast biopsies were accrued from 24 women at
high risk of breast cancer. Mammographic density was classified into Wolfe
categories and ranked by increasing density. The histological composition and
immunophenotypic profile were quantified from digitized haematoxylin and
eosin-stained and immunohistochemically-stained (ERα, ERβ, PgR, HER2, Ki-67, and 
CD31) slides and correlated to mammographic density.
RESULTS: Increasing mammographic density was significantly correlated with
increased fibrous stroma proportion (rs (22) = 0.5226, p = 0.0088) and
significantly inversely associated with adipose tissue proportion (rs (22) =
-0.5409, p = 0.0064). Contrary to previous reports, stromal expression of ERα was
common (19/20 cases, 95%). There was significantly higher stromal PgR expression 
in mammographically-dense breasts (p=0.026).
CONCLUSIONS: The proportion of stroma and fat underlies mammographic density in
women at high risk of breast cancer. Increased expression of PgR in the stroma of
mammographically dense breasts and frequent and unexpected presence of stromal
ERα expression raises the possibility that hormone receptor expression in breast 
stroma may have a role in mediating the effects of exogenous hormonal therapy on 
mammographic density.

PMID: 26110820  [PubMed - in process]


150. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130477.
eCollection 2015.

Targeting the CaMKII/ERK Interaction in the Heart Prevents Cardiac Hypertrophy.

Cipolletta E(1), Rusciano MR(2), Maione AS(2), Santulli G(3), Sorriento D(4), Del
Giudice C(5), Ciccarelli M(1), Franco A(5), Crola C(2), Campiglia P(6), Sala
M(6), Gomez-Monterrey I(7), De Luca N(2), Trimarco B(5), Iaccarino G(1), Illario 
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Salerno, Baronissi (SA),
Italy. (2)Department of Translational and Medical Sciences, Federico II
University, Naples, Italy. (3)Columbia University Medical Center, College of
Physicians & Surgeons, New York Presbyterian Hospital-Manhattan, New York, NY,
United States of America. (4)Institute of Biostructure and Bioimaging (IBB) of
Italian National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy. (5)Department of Advanced
Biomedical Science, Federico II University, Naples, Italy. (6)Department of
Pharmacy, University of Salerno, Fisciano, Italy. (7)Department of Pharmacy,
Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

AIMS: Activation of Ca2+/Calmodulin protein kinase II (CaMKII) is an important
step in signaling of cardiac hypertrophy. The molecular mechanisms by which
CaMKII integrates with other pathways in the heart are incompletely understood.
We hypothesize that CaMKII association with extracellular regulated kinase (ERK),
promotes cardiac hypertrophy through ERK nuclear localization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In H9C2 cardiomyoblasts, the selective CaMKII peptide
inhibitor AntCaNtide, its penetratin conjugated minimal inhibitory sequence
analog tat-CN17β, and the MEK/ERK inhibitor UO126 all reduce phenylephrine
(PE)-mediated ERK and CaMKII activation and their interaction. Moreover,
AntCaNtide or tat-CN17β pretreatment prevented PE induced CaMKII and ERK nuclear 
accumulation in H9C2s and reduced the hypertrophy responses. To determine the
role of CaMKII in cardiac hypertrophy in vivo, spontaneously hypertensive rats
were subjected to intramyocardial injections of AntCaNtide or tat-CN17β. Left
ventricular hypertrophy was evaluated weekly for 3 weeks by cardiac ultrasounds. 
We observed that the treatment with CaMKII inhibitors induced similar but
significant reduction of cardiac size, left ventricular mass, and thickness of
cardiac wall. The treatment with CaMKII inhibitors caused a significant reduction
of CaMKII and ERK phosphorylation levels and their nuclear localization in the
heart.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that CaMKII and ERK interact to promote
activation in hypertrophy; the inhibition of CaMKII-ERK interaction offers a
novel therapeutic approach to limit cardiac hypertrophy.

PMID: 26110816  [PubMed - in process]


151. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129573. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129573.
eCollection 2015.

Use of Ethanol in the Trans-Arterial Lipiodol Embolization (TAELE) of
Intermediated-Stage HCC: Is This Safer than Conventional Trans-Arterial
Chemo-Embolization (c-TACE)?

Somma F(1), D'Angelo R(2), Serra N(1), Gatta G(1), Grassi R(1), Fiore F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery "Magrassi and Lanzara", Section of
Radiology, Second University of Naples (SUN), Napoli, Italy. (2)Department of
Interventional Radiology, National Cancer Institute of Naples "Fondazione
Pascale", Napoli, Italy.

PURPOSE: To evaluate safety and efficacy of Trans-Arterial Ethanol-Lipiodol
Embolization (TAELE) compared with conventional Trans-Arterial Chemo-Embolization
(cTACE) in the treatment of small intermediate-HCC (BCLC-Stage B).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A random sample of 87 patients (37.93% male; 62.07%
female; age range, 36-86 years) with documented small intermediate-HCC and
treated with TAELE (mixture 1:1 of Ethanol and Lipiodol) or cTACE (mixture of
50mg-Epirubicin and 5cc-Lipiodol) were retrospectively studied in an
institutional review board approved protocol. The two procedures were compared
with χ2-test, χ2-test with Yates correction, McNemar's exact test, ANOVA test and
log-rank test.
RESULTS: TAELE and cTACE therapies were performed in 45 and 42 patients,
respectively. Thirty days after the procedure, a Multi-Detector Computed
Tomography (MDCT) showed no significant difference in the number of patients with
partial and complete response between the two groups (p-value = 0.958), according
to mRECIST. Contrary, significant differences were found in
tumor-devascularization, lesion-reduction and post-embolization syndrome
occurrence (p-value = 0.0004, p-value = 0.0003 and p-value = 0.009,
respectively). Similar survival was observed during 36-month follow-up (p-value =
0.884).
CONCLUSION: Compared to cTACE, TAELE showed a better toxicity profile with
similar 36-month survival and similar one-month anti-tumor effects, which makes
it better tolerated by patients, especially in case of more than one treatment.

PMID: 26110810  [PubMed - in process]


152. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131154. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131154.
eCollection 2015.

Scale Adjustments to Facilitate Two-Dimensional Measurements in OCT Images.

Garcia Garrido M(1), Mühlfriedel RL(1), Beck SC(1), Wallrapp C(2), Seeliger
MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ocular Neurodegeneration, Institute for Ophthalmic Research,
Centre for Ophthalmology, Tuebingen, Germany. (2)BTG International Germany GmbH, 
Alzenau, Germany.

PURPOSE: To address the problem of unequal scales for the measurement of
two-dimensional structures in OCT images, and demonstrate the use of intra¬ocular
objects of known dimensions in the murine eye for the equal calibration of axes.
METHODS: The first part of this work describes the mathematical foundation of
major distortion effects introduced by X-Y scaling differences. Illustrations
were generated with CorelGraph X3 software. The second part bases on image data
obtained with a HRA2 Spectralis (Heidelberg Engineering) in SV129 wild-type mice.
Subretinally and intravitreally implanted microbeads, alginate capsules with a
diameter of 154±5 μm containing GFP-marked mesenchymal stem cells (CellBeads),
were used as intraocular objects for calibration.
RESULTS: The problems encountered with two-dimensional measurements in cases of
unequal scales are demonstrated and an estimation of the resulting errors is
provided. Commonly, the Y axis is reliably calibrated using outside standards
like histology or manufacturer data. We show here that intraocular objects like
dimensionally stable spherical alginate capsules allow for a two-dimensional
calibration of the acquired OCT raw images by establishing a relation between X
and Y axis data. For our setup, a correction factor of about 3.3 was determined
using both epiretinally and subretinally positioned beads (3.350 ± 0.104 and
3.324 ± 0.083, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In this work, we highlight the distortion-related problems in OCT
image analysis induced by unequal X and Y scales. As an exemplary case, we
provide data for a two-dimensional in vivo OCT image calibration in mice using
intraocular alginate capsules. Our results demonstrate the need for a proper
two-dimensional calibration of OCT data, and we believe that equal scaling will
certainly improve the efficiency of OCT image analysis.

PMID: 26110792  [PubMed - in process]


153. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130559. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130559.
eCollection 2015.

Gamma-Smooth Muscle Actin Expression Is Associated with Epithelial-Mesenchymal
Transition and Stem-Like Properties in Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Benzoubir N(1), Mussini C(2), Lejamtel C(3), Dos Santos A(1), Guillaume C(2),
Desterke C(4), Samuel D(5), Bréchot C(6), Bourgeade MF(5), Guettier C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, Unité 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France; Univ Paris-Sud, UMR-S 785,
Villejuif, F-94800, France; DHU Hepatinov, Villejuif, France. (2)AP-HP Hôpital
Kremlin-Bicêtre, Service d'Anatomopathologie, Paris, France; DHU Hepatinov,
Villejuif, France. (3)Inserm, Unité 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France; Univ
Paris-Sud, UMR-S 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France. (4)SFR André Lwoff, Villejuif, 
F-94800, France; DHU Hepatinov, Villejuif, France. (5)Inserm, Unité 785,
Villejuif, F-94800, France; Univ Paris-Sud, UMR-S 785, Villejuif, F-94800,
France; AP-HP Hôpital Paul Brousse, Centre Hépatobiliaire, Villejuif, France; DHU
Hepatinov, Villejuif, France. (6)Inserm, Unité 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France;
Univ Paris-Sud, UMR-S 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France; Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France. (7)Inserm, Unité 785, Villejuif, F-94800, France; Univ Paris-Sud, UMR-S
785, Villejuif, F-94800, France; AP-HP Hôpital Kremlin-Bicêtre, Service
d'Anatomopathologie, Paris, France; DHU Hepatinov, Villejuif, France.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is hampered 
by frequent tumour recurrence and metastases. Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition
(EMT) is now recognized as a key process in tumour invasion, metastasis and the
generation of cancer initiating cells. The morphological identification of EMT in
tumour samples from the expression of novel mesenchymal markers could provide
relevant prognostic information and aid in understanding the metastatic process.
METHODS: The expression of Smooth Muscle Actins was studied using
immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry assays in cultured liver cells during
an induced EMT process and in liver specimens from adult and paediatric HCC
series.
RESULTS: We report here that in HCC cell lines treated with TGF-β and in HCC
specimens, the expression of αSMA, a known mesenchymal marker of EMT, could never
be detected. In addition, our in vitro studies identified the enteric form of
SMA, γSMA, as being a marker of EMT. Moreover, this SMA isoform was expressed in 
46% of 58 tumours from 42 adult HCC patients and in 90% of 16 tumours from 12
paediatric HCC patients. Interestingly, this expression was significantly
correlated with poor tumour differentiation and progenitor cell features
characterized by the expression of EpCAM and K19.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, our results support the conclusion that γSMA
expression in HCC is strongly correlated with the EMT process, HCC aggressiveness
and the identification of cancer stem cells. This correlation suggests that γSMA 
represents a novel and powerful marker to predict HCC progression.

PMID: 26110787  [PubMed - in process]


154. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130469. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130469.
eCollection 2015.

Trends in Cancer Incidence in Maputo, Mozambique, 1991-2008.

Lorenzoni C(1), Vilajeliu A(2), Carrilho C(1), Ismail MR(1), Castillo P(3),
Augusto O(4), García-Basteiro AL(5), Sidat M(4), de Sanjosé S(6), Menéndez C(5), 
Ordi J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Maputo Central Hospital, Maputo, Mozambique; Faculty 
of Medicine, Eduardo Mondlane University, Maputo, Mozambique. (2)ISGlobal,
Barcelona Ctr. Int. Health Res. (CRESIB), Hospital Clínic-Universitat de
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, 
Hospital Clinic, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (3)ISGlobal,
Barcelona Ctr. Int. Health Res. (CRESIB), Hospital Clínic-Universitat de
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Eduardo Mondlane University, Maputo, Mozambique. (5)ISGlobal, Barcelona Ctr. Int.
Health Res. (CRESIB), Hospital Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain;
Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Maputo, Mozambique. (6)Unit of
Infections and Cancer, Institut Catala d'Oncologia, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat,
Barcelona, Spain. (7)ISGlobal, Barcelona Ctr. Int. Health Res. (CRESIB), Hospital
Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Department of Pathology,
Hospital Clinic, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Very limited information is available regarding the incidence of
cancer in sub-Saharan Africa. We analyzed changes in cancer patterns from 1991 to
2008 in Maputo (Mozambique).
METHODS: We calculated the rates of incidence of different cancer sites by sex in
the 5-year age-group of the population of Maputo city as well as age-standardized
rates (ASRs) and average annual percentage changes (AAPC).
RESULTS: Over the 18-year study period a total of 12,674 cases of cancer (56.9%
females) were registered with an overall increase in the risk of cancer in both
sexes. In males, the most common cancers were those of the prostate, Kaposi
sarcoma (KS) and the liver. Prostate cancer showed the most dramatic increase
over the whole study period (AAPC +11.3%; 95% CI: 9.7-13.0), with an ASR of 61.7 
per 105 in 2003-2008. In females, the most frequent cancers were of the uterine
cervix, the breast and KS, with the former increasing along the whole study
period (AAPC + 4.7%; 95% CI: 3.4-6) with an ASR of 62.0 per 105 in 2003-2008 as
well as breast cancer (AAPC +6.5%; 95%CI: 4.3-8.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the risk of cancer rose in both sexes during the study
period, particularly among cancers associated with westernization of lifestyles
(prostate, breast), combined with increasingly rising incidences or limited
changes in cancers associated with infection and poverty (uterine cervix, liver).
Moreover, the burden of AIDS-associated cancers has shown a marked increase.

PMID: 26110774  [PubMed - in process]


155. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129562. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129562.
eCollection 2015.

Primary Hyperventilation in the Emergency Department: A First Overview.

Pfortmueller CA(1), Pauchard-Neuwerth SE(2), Leichtle AB(3), Fiedler GM(3),
Exadaktylos AK(2), Lindner G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, Medical University
of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (2)Department of Emergency Medicine, University
Hospital and University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (3)Center of Laboratory
Medicine, University Institute of Clinical Chemistry, Inselspital-Bern University
Hospital, Inselspital, Bern, Switzerland. (4)Department of Emergency Medicine,
University Hospital and University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland; Department of
Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Otto Wagner Hospital Vienna and Ludwig
Boltzmann Institute for COPD and Respiratory Epidemiology, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Primary hyperventilation is defined as a state of alveolar
ventilation in excess of metabolic requirements, leading to decreased arterial
partial pressure of carbon dioxide. The primary aim of this study was to
characterise patients diagnosed with primary hyperventilation in the ED.
METHODS: Our retrospective cohort study comprised adult (≥16 years) patients
admitted to our ED between 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2012 with the primary
diagnosis of primary (=psychogenic) hyperventilation.
RESULTS: A total of 616 patients were eligible for study. Participants were
predominantely female (341 [55.4%] female versus 275 [44.6%] male respectively, p
<0.01). The mean age was 36.5 years (SD 15.52, range 16-85). Patients in their
twenties were the most common age group (181, 29.4%), followed by patients in
their thirties (121, 19.6%). Most patients presented at out-of-office hours (331 
[53.7%]. The most common symptom was fear (586, 95.1%), followed by paraesthesia 
(379, 61.5%) and dizziness (306, 49.7%). Almost a third (187, 30.4%) of our
patients had previously experienced an episode of hyperventilation and half (311,
50.5%) of patients had a psychiatric co-morbidity.
CONCLUSION: Hyperventilation is a diagnostic chimera with a wide spectrum of
symptoms. Patients predominantly are of young age, female sex and often have
psychiatric comorbidities. The severity of symptoms accompanied with primary
hyperventilation most often needs further work-up to rule out other diagnosis in 
a mostly young population. In the future, further prospective multicentre studies
are needed to evaluate and establish clear diagnostic criteria for primary
hyperventilation and possible screening instruments.

PMID: 26110771  [PubMed - in process]


156. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130925. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130925.
eCollection 2015.

Validation of the New Lucerne ICF Based Multidisciplinary Observation Scale
(LIMOS) for Stroke Patients.

Ottiger B(1), Vanbellingen T(1), Gabriel C(1), Huberle E(1), Koenig-Bruhin M(1), 
Plugshaupt T(1), Bohlhalter S(1), Nyffeler T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Center, Luzerner Kantonsspital, Luzern,
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Valid and multidisciplinary assessment of a stroke patient's ability 
to perform activities of daily living is very important to define individual
goals and to plan targeted rehabilitation. Until today, there is no observation
scale that relies on International Classification of Functioning, Disability and 
Health (ICF). The aim of the present study was to develop and evaluate the
reliability and validity of a new multidisciplinary observation scale for stroke 
patients, shortly called LIMOS, which is based on ICF.
METHODS: In a first phase, LIMOS was defined, using a Delphi approach, by an
expert panel and a pilot testing was conducted in a small group of stroke
patients (n =10) to investigate feasibility and practicability. In a second
phase, LIMOS was assessed for its reliability (internal consistency and
test-retest reliability) and validity in a large cohort of stroke patients (n =
102). For convergent validity, the correlation between total scores of the LIMOS 
and the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) was assessed.
RESULTS: LIMOS consisted of seven ICF chapters incorporating 45 domains. A high
internal consistency (=0.98) of LIMOS was found. Furthermore, good test-retest
reliability at item and subscale level was found. Principal component analysis
revealed that among the seven ICF chapters, four components could be found: (1)
interpersonal activities, mobility and self-care, (2) communication, (3)
knowledge and general tasks, and (4) domestic life. Significant associations were
found between LIMOS and the FIM indicating good convergent validity.
CONCLUSIONS: The new LIMOS is a reliable and valid observation scale for stroke
patients based on ICF, which can be used by a multidisciplinary team working in a
neurorehabilitation setting.

PMID: 26110769  [PubMed - in process]


157. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131542. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131542.
eCollection 2015.

Characterization of SMAD3 Gene Variants for Possible Roles in Ventricular Septal 
Defects and Other Congenital Heart Diseases.

Li FF(1), Zhou J(2), Zhao DD(1), Yan P(3), Li X(1), Han Y(1), Li XS(4), Wang
GY(3), Yu KJ(2), Liu SL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Research Center (one of the State-Province Key Laboratory of
Biopharmaceutical Engineering, China), Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China. 
(2)Intensive Care Unit, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical
University, Harbin, China. (3)Department of Colorectal Surgery, the Second
Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China. (4)Daqing
People's Hospital, Daqing, China. (5)Genomics Research Center (one of the
State-Province Key Laboratory of Biopharmaceutical Engineering, China), Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, China; Department of Microbiology, Immunology and
Infectious Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Nodal/TGF signaling pathway has an important effect at early stages
of differentiation of human embryonic stem cells in directing them to develop
into different embryonic lineages. SMAD3 is a key intracellular messenger
regulating factor in the Nodal/TGF signaling pathway, playing important roles in 
embryonic and, particularly, cardiovascular system development. The aim of this
work was to find evidence on whether SMAD3 variations might be associated with
ventricular septal defects (VSD) or other congenital heart diseases (CHD).
METHODS: We sequenced the SMAD3 gene for 372 Chinese Han CHD patients including
176 VSD patients and evaluated SNP rs2289263, which is located before the 5'UTR
sequence of the gene. The statistical analyses were conducted using Chi-Square
Tests as implemented in SPSS (version 13.0). The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test 
of the population was carried out using the online software OEGE.
RESULTS: Three heterozygous variants in SMAD3 gene, rs2289263, rs35874463 and
rs17228212, were identified. Statistical analyses showed that the rs2289263
variant located before the 5'UTR sequence of SMAD3 gene was associated with the
risk of VSD (P value=0.013 <0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The SNP rs2289263 in the SMAD3 gene is associated with VSD in
Chinese Han populations.

PMID: 26110764  [PubMed - in process]


158. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0125248. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125248.
eCollection 2015.

Quantitative Assessment of Intra-Patient Variation in CD4+ T Cell Counts in
Stable, Virologically-Suppressed, HIV-Infected Subjects.

Gordon CL(1), Cheng AC(2), Cameron PU(3), Bailey M(4), Crowe SM(3), Mills J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Alfred hospital, Melbourne, Australia. 
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Alfred hospital, Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Epidemiology and Preventative Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Australia. (3)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Alfred hospital, 
Melbourne, Australia; Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public
Health, Melbourne, Australia. (4)Department of Epidemiology and Preventative
Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. (5)Department of Infectious
Diseases, The Alfred hospital, Melbourne, Australia; Department of Epidemiology
and Preventative Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Macfarlane
Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health, Melbourne, Australia;
Department of Medicine, Monash University Central Clinical School, Melbourne,
Australia.

OBJECTIVES: Counts of absolute CD4+ T lymphocytes (CD4+ T cells) are known to be 
highly variable in untreated HIV-infected individuals, but there are no data in
virologically-suppressed individuals. We investigated CD4+ T cell variability in 
stable, virologically-suppressed, HIV-1 infected adults on combination
antiretroviral therapy (cART).
METHODS: From a large hospital database we selected patients with stable
virological suppression on cART for >3 years with >10 CD4+ T cell measurements
performed over a further >2 years; and a control group of 95 patients not on
cART.
RESULTS: We identified 161 HIV-infected patients on cART without active HCV or
HBV infection, with stable virological suppression for a median of 6.4 years.
Over the study period 88 patients had reached a plateau in their absolute CD4+ T 
cell counts, while 65 patients had increasing and 8 patients had decreasing
absolute CD4+ T cell counts. In patients with plateaued CD4+ T cell counts,
variability in absolute CD4+ T cell counts was greater than in percent CD4+ T
cells (median coefficient of variation (CV) 16.6% [IQR 13.8-20.1%] and CV 9.6%
[IQR 7.4-13.0%], respectively). Patients with increasing CD4+ T cell counts had
greater variability in absolute CD4+ T cell counts than those with plateaued CD4 
T cell counts (CV 19.5% [IQR 16.1-23.8%], p<0.001) while there was no difference 
in percent CD4+ T cell variability between the two groups. As previously
reported, untreated patients had CVs significantly higher than patients on cART
(CVs of 21.1% [IQR 17.2-32.0%], p<0.001 and 15.2% (IQR 10.7-20.0%), p<0.001,
respectively). Age or sex did not affect the degree of CD4+ variation.
CONCLUSIONS: Adults with stable, virologically-suppressed HIV infection continue 
to have significant variations in individual absolute CD4+ T cell and percent
CD4+ T cell counts; this variation can be of clinical relevance especially around
CD4+ thresholds. However, the variation seen in individuals on cART is
substantially less than in untreated subjects.

PMID: 26110761  [PubMed - in process]


159. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S4. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S4. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

Insights from GWAS: emerging landscape of mechanisms underlying complex trait
disease.

Pal LR, Yu CH, Mount SM, Moult J.

BACKGROUND: There are now over 2000 loci in the human genome where genome wide
association studies (GWAS) have found one or more SNPs to be associated with
altered risk of a complex trait disease. At each of these loci, there must be
some molecular level mechanism relevant to the disease. What are these mechanisms
and how do they contribute to disease?
RESULTS: Here we consider the roles of three primary mechanism classes: changes
that directly alter protein function (missense SNPs), changes that alter
transcript abundance as a consequence of variants close-by in sequence, and
changes that affect splicing. Missense SNPs are divided into those predicted to
have a high impact on in vivo protein function, and those with a low impact.
Splicing is divided into SNPs with a direct impact on splice sites, and those
with a predicted effect on auxiliary splicing signals. The analysis was based on 
associations found for seven complex trait diseases in the classic Wellcome Trust
Case Control Consortium (WTCCC1) GWA study and subsequent studies and
meta-analyses, collected from the GWAS catalog. Linkage disequilibrium
information was used to identify possible candidate SNPs for involvement in
disease mechanism in each of the 356 loci associated with these seven diseases.
With the parameters used, we find that 76% of loci have at least of these
mechanisms. Overall, except for the low incidence of direct impact on splice
sites, the mechanisms are found at similar frequencies, with changes in
transcript abundance the most common. But the distribution of mechanisms over
diseases varies markedly, as does the fraction of loci with assigned mechanisms. 
Many of the implicated proteins have previously been suggested as relevant, but
the specific mechanism assignments are new. In addition, a number of new disease 
relevant proteins are proposed.
CONCLUSIONS: The high fraction of GWAS loci with proposed mechanisms suggests
that these classes of mechanism play a major role. Other mechanism types, such as
variants affecting expression of genes remote in the DNA sequence, will
contribute in other loci. Each of the identified putative mechanisms provides a
hypothesis for further investigation.

PMID: 26110739  [PubMed - in process]


160. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130466. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130466.
eCollection 2015.

Diagnosis and Treatment of Autoimmune Pancreatitis in China: A Systematic Review.

Meng Q(1), Xin L(1), Liu W(2), Lin H(1), Tian B(1), Wang L(1), Li Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical
University, Shanghai, China. (2)Department of General Surgery, Changhai Hospital,
Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, China.

AIMS: To provide comprehensive data on the diagnosis and treatment of autoimmune 
pancreatitis (AIP) patients in China.
DESIGN: A systematic review.
METHODS: All clinical studies concerning AIP from China published between January
2006 and June 2014 were retrospectively reviewed and analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 26 original articles involving 706 AIP patients were included
with an estimated proportion of type 2 AIP as 4.7%. In the 706 AIP patients, the 
range of mean/median age was 48.6-67.0 years old and the male to female ratio was
4.47:1. The common presentations included obstructive jaundice (pooled rate:
63.4%, 95%CI: 55.4%-71.0%) and abdominal symptoms (pooled rate: 62.3%, 95%CI:
52.4%-71.7%). Biliary involvement was the most common extrapancreatic
manifestations, especially the lower part of the common bile duct (pooled rate:
62.3%, 95%CI: 49.9%-73.9%). According to the imaging examinations, 53.8% and
41.6% patients were classified into focal-type and diffuse-type, respectively.
Notably, upstream pancreatic duct dilatation was found in parts of patients
(pooled rate: 13.8%, 95%CI: 6.6%-23.1%). The levels of serum IgG4 were elevated
in most patients (pooled rate: 86.0%, 95%CI: 74.2%-94.6%). Nearly three tenths
AIP patients received surgery (pooled rate: 29.7%, 95%CI: 18.1%-42.8%) due to
mimicked malignancy. Steroid treatment was given to 78.4% patients (95%CI:
65.3%-89.1%) with a pooled remission rate of 96.2% (95%CI: 94.0%-97.9%). The
pooled relapse rate was 13.8% (95%CI: 7.2%-22.0%) with the mean follow-up time
ranging from 12 to 45 months.
CONCLUSION: Type 1 is the predominant type of Chinese AIP patients and the
clinical features, diagnostic modalities and therapeutic regimen were similar
with those in other countries. Knowledge of AIP should be more widespread to
avoid unnecessary surgery.

PMID: 26110658  [PubMed - in process]


161. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130910. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130910.
eCollection 2015.

Extracts of Feijoa Inhibit Toll-Like Receptor 2 Signaling and Activate Autophagy 
Implicating a Role in Dietary Control of IBD.

Nasef NA(1), Mehta S(1), Powell P(2), Marlow G(1), Wileman T(2), Ferguson LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medical & Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland,
New Zealand. (2)Biomedical Research Centre, Norwich Medical School, UEA, Norwich,
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a heterogeneous chronic
inflammatory disease affecting the gut with limited treatment success for its
sufferers. This suggests the need for better understanding of the different
subtypes of the disease as well as nutritional interventions to compliment
current treatments. In this study we assess the ability of a hydrophilic feijoa
fraction (F3) to modulate autophagy a process known to regulate inflammation, via
TLR2 using IBD cell lines.
METHOD: Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) deleted for ATG5, and two intestinal
epithelial cells HCT15 and HCT116, were used to test the anti-inflammatory effect
of F3 after stimulating the cells with a TLR2 specific ligand PAM3CSK4.
RESULTS: F3 was able to reduce TLR2 specific inflammation and stimulate autophagy
in MEFs and HCT15 cells but not in HCT116 cells. The anti-inflammatory effect was
reduced in the MEF cells deleted for ATG5. In addition, the activation of
autophagy by F3 was enhanced by PAM3CSK4.
CONCLUSION: F3 of feijoa can interact with cells via a TLR2 specific mechanism
and reduce Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation in part due to stimulation
of autophagy. These results suggest that there is potential benefit in using
feijoa extracts as part of dietary interventions to manage IBD in patients.

PMID: 26110654  [PubMed - in process]


162. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130118. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130118.
eCollection 2015.

Enrichment of the Cancer Stem Phenotype in Sphere Cultures of Prostate Cancer
Cell Lines Occurs through Activation of Developmental Pathways Mediated by the
Transcriptional Regulator ΔNp63α.

Portillo-Lara R(1), Alvarez MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biotecnología-FEMSA, Tecnológico de Monterrey, Monterrey, Nuevo
León, México. (2)Centro de Biotecnología-FEMSA, Tecnológico de Monterrey,
Monterrey, Nuevo León, México; Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSC) drive prostate cancer tumor survival and
metastasis. Nevertheless, the development of specific therapies against CSCs is
hindered by the scarcity of these cells in prostate tissues. Suspension culture
systems have been reported to enrich CSCs in primary cultures and cell lines.
However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon have not been fully 
explored.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We describe a prostasphere assay for the
enrichment of CD133+ CSCs in four commercial PCa cell lines: 22Rv1, DU145, LNCaP,
and PC3. Overexpression of CD133, as determined by flow cytometric analysis,
correlated with an increased clonogenic, chemoresistant, and invasive potential
in vitro. This phenotype is concordant to that of CSCs in vivo. Gene expression
profiling was then carried out using the Cancer Reference panel and the nCounter 
system from NanoString Technologies. This analysis revealed several upregulated
transcripts that can be further explored as potential diagnostic markers or
therapeutic targets. Furthermore, functional annotation analysis suggests that
ΔNp63α modulates the activation of developmental pathways responsible for the
increased stem identity of cells growing in suspension cultures.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We conclude that profiling the genetic mechanisms
involved in CSC enrichment will help us to better understand the molecular
pathways that underlie CSC pathophysiology. This platform can be readily adapted 
to enrich and assay actual patient samples, in order to design patient-specific
therapies that are aimed particularly against CSCs.

PMID: 26110651  [PubMed - in process]


163. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129515. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129515.
eCollection 2015.

Quality of Co-Prescribing NSAID and Gastroprotective Medications for Elders in
The Netherlands and Its Association with the Electronic Medical Record.

Opondo D(1), Visscher S(2), Eslami S(1), Verheij RA(2), Korevaar JC(2), Abu-Hanna
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (2)Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research (NIVEL),
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To assess guideline adherence of co-prescribing NSAID and
gastroprotective medications for elders in general practice over time, and
investigate its potential association with the electronic medical record (EMR)
system brand used.
METHODS: We included patients 65 years and older who received NSAIDs between 2005
and 2010. Prescription data were extracted from EMR systems of GP practices
participating in the Dutch NIVEL Primary Care Database. We calculated the
proportion of NSAID prescriptions with co-prescription of gastroprotective
medication for each GP practice at intervals of three months. Association between
proportion of gastroprotection, brand of electronic medical record (EMR), and
type of GP practice were explored. Temporal trends in proportion of
gastroprotection between electronic medical records systems were analyzed using a
random effects linear regression model.
RESULTS: We included 91,521 patient visits with NSAID prescriptions from 77
general practices between 2005 and 2010. Overall proportion of NSAID
prescriptions to the elderly with co-prescription of gastroprotective medication 
was 43%. Mean proportion of gastroprotection increased from 27% (CI 25-29%) in
the first quarter of 2005 with a rate of 1.2% every 3 months to 55%(CI 52-58%) at
the end of 2010. Brand of EMR and type of GP practice were independently
associated with co-prescription of gastroprotection.
CONCLUSION: Although prescription of gastroprotective medications to elderly
patients who receive NSAIDs increased in The Netherlands, they are not
co-prescribed in about half of the indicated cases. Brand of EMR system is
associated with differences in prescription of gastroprotective medication.
Optimal design and utilization of EMRs is a potential area of intervention to
improve quality of prescription.

PMID: 26110650  [PubMed - in process]


164. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131121. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131121.
eCollection 2015.

Patience, Persistence and Pragmatism: Experiences and Lessons Learnt from the
Implementation of Clinically Integrated Teaching and Learning of Evidence-Based
Health Care - A Qualitative Study.

Young T(1), Rohwer A(2), van Schalkwyk S(3), Volmink J(4), Clarke M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Evidence-based Health Care, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa; South African
Cochrane Centre, South African Medical Research Council, Cape Town, South Africa;
Division of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa. (2)Centre for Evidence-based
Health Care, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University,
Cape Town, South Africa. (3)Centre for Health Professions Education, Faculty of
Medicine and Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa.
(4)Centre for Evidence-based Health Care, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa; South African
Cochrane Centre, South African Medical Research Council, Cape Town, South Africa.
(5)All Ireland Hub for Trials Methodology Research, Queen's University Belfast,
Belfast, Northern Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Clinically integrated teaching and learning are regarded as the best 
options for improving evidence-based healthcare (EBHC) knowledge, skills and
attitudes. To inform implementation of such strategies, we assessed experiences
and opinions on lessons learnt of those involved in such programmes.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted semi-structured interviews with 24 EBHC
programme coordinators from around the world, selected through purposive
sampling. Following data transcription, a multidisciplinary group of
investigators carried out analysis and data interpretation, using thematic
content analysis. Successful implementation of clinically integrated teaching and
learning of EBHC takes much time. Student learning needs to start in pre-clinical
years with consolidation, application and assessment following in clinical years.
Learning is supported through partnerships between various types of staff
including the core EBHC team, clinical lecturers and clinicians working in the
clinical setting. While full integration of EBHC learning into all clinical
rotations is considered necessary, this was not always achieved. Critical success
factors were pragmatism and readiness to use opportunities for engagement and
including EBHC learning in the curriculum; patience; and a critical mass of the
right teachers who have EBHC knowledge and skills and are confident in
facilitating learning. Role modelling of EBHC within the clinical setting emerged
as an important facilitator. The institutional context exerts an important
influence; with faculty buy-in, endorsement by institutional leaders, and an
EBHC-friendly culture, together with a supportive community of practice, all
acting as key enablers. The most common challenges identified were lack of
teaching time within the clinical curriculum, misconceptions about EBHC,
resistance of staff, lack of confidence of tutors, lack of time, and negative
role modelling.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementing clinically integrated EBHC curricula requires
institutional support, a critical mass of the right teachers and role models in
the clinical setting combined with patience, persistence and pragmatism on the
part of teachers.

PMID: 26110641  [PubMed - in process]


165. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131012. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131012.
eCollection 2015.

The Effect of Nrf2 Pathway Activation on Human Pancreatic Islet Cells.

Masuda Y(1), Vaziri ND(2), Li S(1), Le A(1), Hajighasemi-Ossareh M(1), Robles
L(1), Foster CE(1), Stamos MJ(1), Al-Abodullah I(3), Ricordi C(4), Ichii H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California Irvine, Irvine, California,
United States of America. (2)Medicine, University of California Irvine, Irvine,
California, United States of America. (3)Southern California Islet Cell Resources
Center, Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism, City of Hope
National Medical Center and Beckman Research Institute, Duarte, California,
United States of America. (4)Diabetes Research Institute, University of Miami,
Miami, Florida, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic islets are known to contain low level of antioxidants that
renders them vulnerable to oxidative stress. Nrf2 is the master regulator of
numerous genes, encoding antioxidant, detoxifying, and cytoprotective molecules. 
Activation of Nrf2 pathway induces up-regulation of numerous genes encoding
antioxidant and phase II detoxifying enzymes and related proteins. However,
little is known regarding the role of this pathway in human islet cells. The aim 
was to investigate the effect of Nrf2 activator (dh404,
CDDO-9,11-dihydro-trifluoroethyl amide) on human islet cells.
METHODS: Human islets were obtained from cadaveric donors. After dh404 treatment,
Nrf2 translocation, mRNA expression, and protein abundance of its key target gene
products were examined. The proportion of dh404-treated or non-treated viable
islet beta cells was analyzed using flowcytemetry. The cytoprotective effects
against oxidative stress and production of inflammatory mediators, and in vivo
islet function after transplantation were determined.
RESULTS: Nrf2 nuclear translocation was confirmed by con-focal microscope within 
2 hours after treatment, which was associated with a dose-dependent increase in
mRNA expression of anti-oxidants, including NQO1, HO-1, and GCLC. Enhanced HO-1
expression in dh404 treated islets was confirmed by Western Blot assay. Islet
function after transplantation (2000 IEQ/mouse) to diabetic nude mice was not
affected with or without dh404 treatment. After induction of oxidative stress
with hydrogen peroxide (200 μM) the proportion of dh404-treated viable islet
cells was significantly higher in the dh404-treated than untreated islets (74%
vs.57%; P<0.05). Dh404 significantly decreased production of cytokines/chemokines
including IL-1β, IL-6, IFN-γ and MCP-1.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of human pancreatic islets with the potent synthetic Nrf2
activator, dh404, significantly increased expression of the key anti-oxidants
enzymes, decreased inflammatory mediators in islets and conferred protection
against oxidative stress in beta cells.

PMID: 26110640  [PubMed - in process]


166. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131348. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131348.
eCollection 2015.

Micro-Economic Impact of Congenital Heart Surgery: Results of a Prospective Study
from a Limited-Resource Setting.

Raj M(1), Paul M(1), Sudhakar A(1), Varghese AA(1), Haridas AC(1), Kabali C(2),
Kumar RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and
Research Centre, Kochi, Kerala, India. (2)Consultant Epidemiologist, Dalla Lana
School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON Canada.

INTRODUCTION: The microeconomic impact of surgery for congenital heart disease is
unexplored, particularly in resource limited environments. We sought to
understand the direct and indirect costs related to congenital heart surgery and 
its impact on Indian households from a family perspective.
METHODS: Baseline and first follow-up data of 644 consecutive children admitted
for surgery for congenital heart disease (March 2013 - July 2014) in a tertiary
referral hospital in Central Kerala, South India was collected prospectivelyfrom 
parents through questionnaires using a semi-structured interview schedule.
RESULTS: The median age was 8.2 months (IQR: 3.0- 36.0 months). Most families
belonged to upper middle (43.0%) and lower middle (35.7%) socioeconomic class.
Only 3.9% of families had some form of health insurance. The median expense for
the admission and surgery was INR 201898 (IQR: 163287-266139) [I$ 11989 (IQR:
9696-15804)], which was 0.93 (IQR: 0.52-1.49) times the annual family income of
affected patients. Median loss of man-days was 35 (IQR: 24-50) and job-days was
15 (IQR: 11-24). Surgical risk category and hospital stay duration significantly 
predicted higher costs. One in two families reported overwhelming to high
financial stress during admission period for surgery. Approximately half of the
families borrowed money during the follow up period after surgery.
CONCLUSION: Surgery for congenital heart disease results in significant financial
burden for majority of families studied. Efforts should be directed at further
reductions in treatment costs without compromising the quality of care together
with generating financial support for affected families.

PMID: 26110639  [PubMed - in process]


167. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130449. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130449.
eCollection 2015.

Alpha-Amylase Activity in Blood Increases after Pharmacological, But Not
Psychological, Activation of the Adrenergic System.

Nater UM(1), La Marca R(2), Erni K(2), Ehlert U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND & AIM: Alpha-amylase in both blood and saliva has been used as a
diagnostic parameter. While studies examining alpha-amylase activity in saliva
have shown that it is sensitive to physiological and psychological challenge of
the adrenergic system, no challenge studies have attempted to elucidate the role 
of the adrenergic system in alpha-amylase activity in blood. We set out to
examine the impact of psychological and pharmacological challenge on
alpha-amylase in blood in two separate studies.
METHODS: In study 1, healthy subjects were examined in a placebo-controlled,
double-blind paradigm using yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenergic antagonist. In study 
2, subjects were examined in a standardized rest-controlled psychosocial stress
protocol. Alpha-amylase activity in blood was repeatedly measured in both
studies.
RESULTS: Results of study 1 showed that alpha-amylase in blood is subject to
stronger increases after injection of yohimbine compared to placebo. In study 2, 
results showed that there was no significant effect of psychological stress
compared to rest.
CONCLUSIONS: Alpha-amylase in blood increases after pharmacological activation of
the adrenergic pathways suggesting that sympathetic receptors are responsible for
these changes. Psychological stress, however, does not seem to have an impact on 
alpha-amylase in blood. Our findings provide insight into the mechanisms
underlying activity changes in alpha-amylase in blood in healthy individuals.

PMID: 26110636  [PubMed - in process]


168. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0128595. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128595.
eCollection 2015.

Direct and Indirect Influence of Non-Native Neighbours on Pollination and Fruit
Production of a Native Plant.

Montero-Castaño A(1), Vilà M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecología Integrativa, Estación Biológica de Doñana (EBD),
Agencia Estatal Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Sevilla, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Entomophilous non-native plants can directly affect the pollination
and reproductive success of native plant species and also indirectly, by altering
the composition and abundance of floral resources in the invaded community.
Separating direct from indirect effects is critical for understanding the
mechanisms underlying the impacts of non-native species on recipient communities.
OBJECTIVES: Our aims are: (a) to explore both the direct effect of the non-native
Hedysarum coronarium and its indirect effect, mediated by the alteration of
floral diversity, on the pollinator visitation rate and fructification of the
native Leopoldia comosa and (b) to distinguish whether the effects of the
non-native species were due to its floral display or to its vegetative
interactions.
METHODS: We conducted field observations within a flower removal experimental
setup (i.e. non-native species present, absent and with its inflorescences
removed) at the neighbourhood scale.
RESULTS: Our study illustrates the complexity of mechanisms involved in the
impacts of non-native species on native species. Overall, Hedysarum increased
pollinator visitation rates to Leopoldia target plants as a result of direct and 
indirect effects acting in the same direction. Due to its floral display,
Hedysarum exerted a direct magnet effect attracting visits to native target
plants, especially those made by the honeybee. Indirectly, Hedysarum also
increased the visitation rate of native target plants. Due to the competition for
resources mediated by its vegetative parts, it decreased floral diversity in the 
neighbourhoods, which was negatively related to the visitation rate to native
target plants. Hedysarum overall also increased the fructification of Leopoldia
target plants, even though such an increase was the result of other indirect
effects compensating for the observed negative indirect effect mediated by the
decrease of floral diversity.

PMID: 26110630  [PubMed - in process]


169. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131118. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131118.
eCollection 2015.

Prominent Vessel Sign on Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging in Acute Stroke:
Prediction of Infarct Growth and Clinical Outcome.

Chen CY(1), Chen CI(2), Tsai FY(3), Tsai PH(4), Chan WP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan; Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department of Neurology, Wan Fang
Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (3)Department of
Radiological Sciences, University of California Irvine, Irvine California, United
States of America; Imaging Research Center, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan. (4)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine,
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Imaging Research Center, Taipei
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Medical Imaging, Taipei Medical
University Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Predicting the risk of further infarct growth in stroke
patients is critical to therapeutic decision making. We aimed to predict early
infarct growth and clinical outcome from prominent vessel sign (PVS) identified
on the first susceptibility-weighted image (SWI) after acute stroke.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-two patients with middle cerebral artery (MCA)
infarction had diffusion-weighted imaging, SWI, MR angiography, and clinical
evaluation using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale at 7-60 hours and
5-14 days after stroke onset. Late-stage clinical evaluation at 1 and 3 months
used the modified Rankin Scale. The infarct area and growth were scored from 10
(none) to 0 (infarct or growth in all 10 zones) using the Alberta Stroke Program 
Early CT Score (ASPECTS) system.
RESULTS: Infarct growth on the second MRI occurred in 13 of 15 patients with PVS 
on the first MRI and not in any patient without PVS (n=7; r=0.86, P<0.001). The
extent of PVS was significantly correlated with infarct growth (r=0.82, P<0.001) 
and early-stage outcome (P=0.02). No between-group difference in late-stage
clinical outcome was found.
CONCLUSION: PVS on the first SWI after acute MCA territory stroke is a useful
predictor of early infarct growth. Extensive PVS within the large MCA territory
is related to poor early-stage outcome and could be useful for clinical
assessment of stroke.

PMID: 26110628  [PubMed - in process]


170. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130870. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130870.
eCollection 2015.

Saturated, Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids Intake and Risk of
Pancreatic Cancer: Evidence from Observational Studies.

Yao X(1), Tian Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Shengjing Hospital, China Medical University,
Shenyang, P. R. China.

BACKGROUND: Although the relationship between dietary monounsaturated fatty acids
(MUFAs), polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), and saturated fatty acids (SFAs)
intake and pancreatic cancer risk has been reported by several studies, the
evidence is controversial. We firstly conducted this comprehensive meta-analysis 
to summarize the aforementioned evidence from observational studies.
METHODS: The MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase, and ISI Web of Science databases were used
to search for epidemiological studies of dietary SFA, MUFA, and PUFA and
pancreatic cancer risk that were published until the end of June 2014. Random- or
fixed-effects models were used to estimate the relative risks (RRs) and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs). We also carried out subgroup, sensitivity, and
publication bias analyses.
RESULTS: We identified 13 case-control studies and 7 prospective studies which
including 6270 pancreatic cancer cases in the meta-analysis of SFA, MUFA, and
PUFA and risk of pancreatic cancer. The summary RR was 1.13 (95%CI = 0.94-1.35,
I2 = 70.7%) for SFA, 1.00 (95%CI = 0.87-1.14, I2 = 43.4%) for MUFA, and 0.87
(95%CI = 0.75-1.00, I2 = 55.3%) for PUFA for high versus low intake categories.
We found no evidence of publication bias.
CONCLUSION: In summary, findings of this study supports an inverse association
between diets high in PUFA and pancreatic cancer risk. Further large prospective 
studies are warranted to report the results stratified by the subtypes of MUFA
and PUFA and adjust for other potential risk factors to eliminate residual
confounding.

PMID: 26110621  [PubMed - in process]


171. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130681. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130681.
eCollection 2015.

Prenatal Alcohol Exposure and Congenital Heart Defects: A Meta-Analysis.

Yang J(1), Qiu H(1), Qu P(1), Zhang R(1), Zeng L(1), Yan H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health,
Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's
Republic of China. (2)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of
Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, Shaanxi,
People's Republic of China; Nutrition and Food Safety Engineering Research Center
of Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: There are still inconsistent conclusions about the association of
prenatal alcohol drinking with congenital heart defects (CHDs). We conducted this
meta-analysis to investigate the association between prenatal alcohol exposure
and the risk of overall CHDs and the CHDs subtypes.
METHODS: Case-control and cohort studies published before March 2015 were
searched through PubMed and Embase. Two authors independently extracted data and 
scored the study quality according to the Newcastle-0ttawa Scale. The pooled ORs 
and 95%CI were estimated using the random-effects model and heterogeneity was
assessed by the Q test and I2 statistic.
RESULTS: A total of 20 studies were finally included. The results provided no
evidence of the association between prenatal alcohol exposure and the risk of
overall CHDs (OR = 1.06, 95%CI = 0.93-1.22), ventricular septal defects (VSDs)
(OR = 1.04, 95%CI = 0.86-1.25), or atrial septal defects (ASDs) (OR = 1.40, 95%CI
= 0.88-2.23). However, prenatal alcohol drinking was marginally significantly
associated with conotruncal defects (CTDs) (OR = 1.24, 95%CI = 0.97-1.59) and
statistically significantly associated with d-Transposition of the Great Arteries
(dTGA) (OR = 1.64, 95%CI = 1.17-2.30). Moreover, both prenatal heavy drinking and
binge drinking have a strong association with overall CHDs (heavy drinking: OR = 
3.76, 95%CI = 1.00-14.10; binge drinking: OR = 2.49, 95%CI = 1.04-5.97), and
prenatal moderate drinking has a modest association with CTDs (OR = 1.35, 95%CI =
1.05-1.75) and dTGA (OR = 1.86, 95%CI = 1.09-3.20).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the results suggested that prenatal alcohol exposure 
was not associated with overall CHDs or some subtypes, whereas marginally
significant association was found for CTDs and statistically significant
association was found for dTGA. Further prospective studies with large population
and better designs are needed to explore the association of prenatal alcohol
exposure with CHDs including the subtypes in specific groups.

PMID: 26110619  [PubMed - in process]


172. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131337. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131337.
eCollection 2015.

Deep Sequencing Analysis of HBV Genotype Shift and Correlation with Antiviral
Efficiency during Adefovir Dipivoxil Therapy.

Wang Y(1), Shan X(2), Liang Z(3), Shan Y(4), Huang W(5), Zhang D(4), Zen A(5),
Zhou X(3), Zhao Y(6), Gong X(7), Xu G(7), Zhang X(4), Chen J(7), Huang A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Chongqing, China; Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology on Infectious
Diseases, Ministry of Education, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China. 
(2)Department of Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing, China; Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology on Infectious
Diseases, Ministry of Education, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China. 
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei,
Anhui, China. (4)Department of Infectious Diseases, the Second Affiliated
Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China. (5)Department of
Infectious Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University,
Chongqing, China. (6)Pediatric Research Institute, Children's Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China. (7)Key Laboratory of Molecular
Biology on Infectious Diseases, Ministry of Education, Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing, China.

BACKGROUND: Viral genotype shift in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients during
antiviral therapy has been reported, but the underlying mechanism remains
elusive.
METHODS: 38 CHB patients treated with ADV for one year were selected for studying
genotype shift by both deep sequencing and Sanger sequencing method.
RESULTS: Sanger sequencing method found that 7.9% patients showed mixed genotype 
before ADV therapy. In contrast, all 38 patients showed mixed genotype before ADV
treatment by deep sequencing. 95.5% mixed genotype rate was also obtained from
additional 200 treatment-naïve CHB patients. Of the 13 patients with genotype
shift, the fraction of the minor genotype in 5 patients (38%) increased gradually
during the course of ADV treatment. Furthermore, responses to ADV and HBeAg
seroconversion were associated with the high rate of genotype shift, suggesting
drug and immune pressure may be key factors to induce genotype shift.
Interestingly, patients with genotype C had a significantly higher rate of
genotype shift than genotype B. In genotype shift group, ADV treatment induced a 
marked enhancement of genotype B ratio accompanied by a reduction of genotype C
ratio, suggesting genotype C may be more sensitive to ADV than genotype B.
Moreover, patients with dominant genotype C may have a better therapeutic effect.
Finally, genotype shifts was correlated with clinical improvement in terms of
ALT.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provided a rational explanation for genotype shift
among ADV-treated CHB patients. The genotype and genotype shift might be
associated with antiviral efficiency.

PMID: 26110616  [PubMed - in process]


173. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130444. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130444.
eCollection 2015.

Infant Cancer in Taiwan: Incidence and Trends (1995-2009).

Hung GY(1), Horng JL(2), Yen HJ(1), Lee CY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Department of Pediatrics,
Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pediatrics,
National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department
of Anatomy and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Current information about cancer incidence patterns among infants in 
East Asia is rare. The objective of this study was to report the first
population-based cancer surveillance of infants in Taiwan.
METHODS: Cancer frequencies and incidence rates among subjects aged <1 year for
the period 1995-2009 were obtained from the Taiwan Cancer Registry. Types of
cancers were grouped according to the International Classification of Childhood
Cancer. Rates and trends were analyzed by sex and disease groups and further
compared with that of other countries.
RESULTS: A total of 900 infants were diagnosed with cancers, giving an incidence 
rate of 250.7 per million person-years from 1995 to 2009. The male-to-female
incidence rate ratio was 1.22. Overall, leukemias (56.3 per million) were the
most common cancer, followed by germ cell neoplasms (43.2) and neuroblastomas
(41.8). The incidence increased by 2.5% annually during the 15-year study period 
and was predominantly contributed by male infants (3.5%). Compared with other
countries, the rate of hepatoblastoma in Taiwan was second to that from Beijing
(China) and 2 to 5 times greater compared with the US, France, the North of
England and Osaka (Japan). The rates of germ cell neoplasms were 2 to 4 times
greater in Taiwan.
CONCLUSIONS: The current data suggests that cancer incidence rate among male
infants was rising in Taiwan. The factors associated with higher rates of
hepatoblastoma and germ cell neoplasms warrant further investigation on similar
ethnic groups of different areas to elucidate the potential environmental impacts
while controlling for race.

PMID: 26110595  [PubMed - in process]


174. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S3. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S3. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

Disease-associated variants in different categories of disease located in
distinct regulatory elements.

Ma M, Ru Y, Chuang LS, Hsu NY, Shi LS, Hakenberg J, Cheng WY, Uzilov A, Ding W,
Glicksberg BS, Chen R.

BACKGROUND: The invention of high throughput sequencing technologies has led to
the discoveries of hundreds of thousands of genetic variants associated with
thousands of human diseases. Many of these genetic variants are located outside
the protein coding regions, and as such, it is challenging to interpret the
function of these genetic variants by traditional genetic approaches. Recent
genome-wide functional genomics studies, such as FANTOM5 and ENCODE have
uncovered a large number of regulatory elements across hundreds of different
tissues or cell lines in the human genome. These findings provide an opportunity 
to study the interaction between regulatory elements and disease-associated
genetic variants. Identifying these diseased-related regulatory elements will
shed light on understanding the mechanisms of how these variants regulate gene
expression and ultimately result in disease formation and progression.
RESULTS: In this study, we curated and categorized 27,558 Mendelian disease
variants, 20,964 complex disease variants, 5,809 cancer predisposing germline
variants, and 43,364 recurrent cancer somatic mutations. Compared against nine
different types of regulatory regions from FANTOM5 and ENCODE projects, we found 
that different types of disease variants show distinctive propensity for
particular regulatory elements. Mendelian disease variants and recurrent cancer
somatic mutations are 22-fold and 10- fold significantly enriched in promoter
regions respectively (q<0.001), compared with allele-frequency-matched genomic
background. Separate from these two categories, cancer predisposing germline
variants are 27-fold enriched in histone modification regions (q<0.001), 10-fold 
enriched in chromatin physical interaction regions (q<0.001), and 6-fold enriched
in transcription promoters (q<0.001). Furthermore, Mendelian disease variants and
recurrent cancer somatic mutations share very similar distribution across types
of functional effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Disease-associated variants in different disease categories are
preferentially located in particular regulatory elements. These results will be
useful for an overall understanding about the differences among the pathogenic
mechanisms of various disease-associated variants.

PMID: 26110593  [PubMed - in process]


175. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131329. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131329.
eCollection 2015.

Performance of Three Prognostic Models in Patients with Cancer in Need of
Intensive Care in a Medical Center in China.

Xing X(1), Gao Y(1), Wang H(1), Huang C(1), Qu S(1), Zhang H(1), Wang H(1), Sun
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Intensive Care Unit, Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of Acute
Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II), Simplified Acute
Physiology Score 3 (SAPS 3), and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation
IV (APACHE IV) in patients with cancer admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) in a
single medical center in China.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective observational cohort study
including nine hundred and eighty one consecutive patients over a 2-year period.
RESULTS: The hospital mortality rate was 4.5%. When all 981 patients were
evaluated, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC, 95%
Confidential Intervals) of the three models in predicting hospital mortality were
0.948 (0.914-0.982), 0.863 (0.804-0.923), and 0.873 (0.813-0.934) for SAPS 3,
APACHE II and APACHE IV respectively. The p values of Hosmer-Lemeshow statistics 
for the models were 0.759, 0.900 and 0.878 for SAPS 3, APACHE II and APACHE IV
respectively. However, SAPS 3 and APACHE IV underestimated the in-hospital
mortality with standardized mortality ratio (SMR) of 1.5 and 1.17 respectively,
while APACHE II overestimated the in-hospital mortality with SMR of 0.72. Further
analysis showed that discrimination power was better with SAPS 3 than with APACHE
II and APACHE IV whether for emergency surgical and medical patients (AUROC of
0.912 vs 0.866 and 0.857) or for scheduled surgical patients (AUROC of 0.945 vs
0.834 and 0.851). Calibration was good for all models (all p > 0.05) whether for 
scheduled surgical patients or emergency surgical and medical patients. However, 
in terms of SMR, SAPS 3 was both accurate in predicting the in-hospital mortality
for emergency surgical and medical patients and for scheduled surgical patients, 
while APACHE IV and APACHE II were not.
CONCLUSION: In this cohort, we found that APACHE II, APACHE IV and SAPS 3 models 
had good discrimination and calibration ability in predicting in-hospital
mortality of critically ill patients with cancer in need of intensive care. Of
these three severity scores, SAPS 3 was superior to APACHE II and APACHE IV,
whether in terms of discrimination and calibration power, or standardized
mortality ratios.

PMID: 26110534  [PubMed - in process]


176. BMC Genomics. 2015;16 Suppl 8:S2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-16-S8-S2. Epub 2015 Jun 
18.

Comparison of GENCODE and RefSeq gene annotation and the impact of reference
geneset on variant effect prediction.

Frankish A, Uszczynska B, Ritchie GR, Gonzalez JM, Pervouchine D, Petryszak R,
Mudge JM, Fonseca N, Brazma A, Guigo R, Harrow J.

BACKGROUND: A vast amount of DNA variation is being identified by increasingly
large-scale exome and genome sequencing projects. To be useful, variants require 
accurate functional annotation and a wide range of tools are available to this
end. McCarthy et al recently demonstrated the large differences in prediction of 
loss-of-function (LoF) variation when RefSeq and Ensembl transcripts are used for
annotation, highlighting the importance of the reference transcripts on which
variant functional annotation is based.
RESULTS: We describe a detailed analysis of the similarities and differences
between the gene and transcript annotation in the GENCODE and RefSeq genesets. We
demonstrate that the GENCODE Comprehensive set is richer in alternative splicing,
novel CDSs, novel exons and has higher genomic coverage than RefSeq, while the
GENCODE Basic set is very similar to RefSeq. Using RNAseq data we show that exons
and introns unique to one geneset are expressed at a similar level to those
common to both. We present evidence that the differences in gene annotation lead 
to large differences in variant annotation where GENCODE and RefSeq are used as
reference transcripts, although this is predominantly confined to non-coding
transcripts and UTR sequence, with at most ~30% of LoF variants annotated
discordantly. We also describe an investigation of dominant transcript
expression, showing that it both supports the utility of the GENCODE Basic set in
providing a smaller set of more highly expressed transcripts and provides a
useful, biologically-relevant filter for further reducing the complexity of the
transcriptome.
CONCLUSIONS: The reference transcripts selected for variant functional annotation
do have a large effect on the outcome. The GENCODE Comprehensive transcripts
contain more exons, have greater genomic coverage and capture many more variants 
than RefSeq in both genome and exome datasets, while the GENCODE Basic set shows 
a higher degree of concordance with RefSeq and has fewer unique features. We
propose that the GENCODE Comprehensive set has great utility for the discovery of
new variants with functional potential, while the GENCODE Basic set is more
suitable for applications demanding less complex interpretation of functional
variants.

PMID: 26110515  [PubMed - in process]


177. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129946. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129946.
eCollection 2015.

Estimating the Effects of Obesity and Weight Change on Mortality Using a Dynamic 
Causal Model.

Cao B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: A well-known challenge in estimating the mortality risks of obesity
is reverse causality attributable to illness-associated and smoking-associated
weight loss. Given that the likelihood of chronic and acute illnesses rises with 
age, reverse causality is most threatening to estimates derived from elderly
populations.
METHODS: I analyzed data from 12,523 respondents over 50 years old from a
nationally representative longitudinal dataset, the Health and Retirement Study
(HRS). The effects of both baseline body weight and time-varying weight change on
mortality are estimated, adjusting for demographic and socio-economic variables, 
as well as time-varying confounders including illness and smoking. Body weight is
measured by body mass index (BMI). In survival models for mortality, illness and 
smoking were lagged to minimize bias from reverse causality in estimates of the
effect of weight change. Furthermore, because illness both causes and is caused
by changes in BMI, I used a marginal structural model (MSM) rather than standard 
adjustment to control confounding by this and other time-dependent factors.
RESULTS: Overall, relative to normal weight, underweight and Class II/III at
baseline are associated with hazard ratios that are 2.07 (95% confidence interval
(CI): 1.28-3.37) and 1.82 (1.54-2.16) respectively, whereas overweight and Class 
I obesity do not significantly lower or raise the mortality risks. Furthermore,
relative to stable weight change, all types of weight change lead to
significantly increased risk of mortality. Specifically, large weight loss
results in a mortality risk that is nearly 3.86 (3.26-4.58) times of staying in
the stable weight range and small weight loss is about 1.81 (1.55-2.11 ) times
riskier. In contrast, large weight gain and small weight gain are associated with
hazard ratios that are 1.98 (1.67-2.35) and 1.20 (1.02-1.41) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Being underweight or severe obese at baseline is associated with
excess mortality risk, and weight change tend to raise mortality risk. Both the
confounding by illness and by smoking lead to overestimates of the effects of
being underweight at baseline and of weight loss, but underestimates the effect
of being obese at baseline.

PMID: 26110432  [PubMed - in process]


178. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131114. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131114.
eCollection 2015.

Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging Provides Insight into White Matter Damage in
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Prell T(1), Hartung V(2), Tietz F(1), Penzlin S(1), Ilse B(3), Schweser F(4),
Deistung A(5), Bokemeyer M(6), Reichenbach JR(5), Witte OW(1), Grosskreutz J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hans-Berger Department of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Erlanger Allee 
101, 07747, Jena, Germany. (2)Department of Radiology, HELIOS Kreiskrankenhaus
Gotha, 99867, Gotha, Germany. (3)Department of Neurology, University of
Göttingen, 37075, Göttingen, Germany. (4)Buffalo Neuroimaging Analysis Center,
Department of Neurology, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, State
University of New York at Buffalo, New York, United States of America; MRI
Clinical and Translational Research Center, School of Medicine and Biomedical
Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo, New York, United States of
America. (5)Medical Physics Group, Institute of Diagnostic and Interventional
Radiology, Jena University Hospital, Philosophenweg 3, 07743, Jena, Germany.
(6)Department of Neuroradiology, Jena University Hospital, Erlanger Allee 101,
07747, Jena, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, progressive
neurodegenerative disorder, characterised by widespread white matter damage.
There is growing evidence that disturbances in iron metabolism contribute to
white matter alterations.
MATERIALS & METHODS: We analysed the data of susceptibility-weighted imaging
(SWI) of white matter in a cohort of 27 patients with ALS and 30 healthy
age-matched controls.
RESULTS: Signal alterations were found on SWI in the corpus callosum; along the
corticospinal tract (subcortical motor cortex, posterior limb of the internal
capsule and brainstem levels) and in the subgyral regions of frontal, parietal,
temporal, occipital and limbic lobes. Alterations of white matter in the corpus
callosum correlated with disease severity as assessed by the revised ALS
functional rating scale.
CONCLUSION: SWI is capable of indicating iron and myelin disturbances in white
matter of ALS patients. The SWI patterns observed in this study suggest that
widespread alterations due to iron disturbances occur in patients with ALS and
correlate with disease severity.

PMID: 26110427  [PubMed - in process]


179. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129233. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129233.
eCollection 2015.

Identification of CREB3L1 as a Biomarker Predicting Doxorubicin Treatment
Outcome.

Denard B(1), Pavia-Jimenez A(2), Chen W(3), Williams NS(4), Naina H(5), Collins
R(5), Brugarolas J(6), Ye J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America. (2)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America; Department of
Developmental Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas 75390, United States of America. (3)Department of Pathology, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America. (5)Department of Internal
Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America. (6)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America; Department of
Developmental Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas 75390, United States of America; Kidney Cancer Program in Simmons
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Doxorubicin has been shown to inhibit proliferation of cancer cells
through proteolytic activation of CREB3L1 (cAMP response element binding protein 
3-like 1), a transcription factor synthesized as a membrane-bound precursor. Upon
doxorubicin treatment, CREB3L1 is cleaved so that the N-terminal domain of the
protein can reach the nucleus where it activates transcription of genes that
inhibit cell proliferation. These results suggest that the level of CREB3L1 in
cancer cells may determine their sensitivity to doxorubicin.
METHODS: Mice transplanted with 6 lines of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were
injected with doxorubicin to observe the effect of the chemotherapy on tumor
growth. Immunohistochemistry and bioinformatics analyses were performed to
compare CREB3L1 levels in types of cancer known to respond to doxorubicin versus 
those resistant to doxorubicin.
RESULTS: Higher levels of CREB3L1 protein are correlated with increased
doxorubicin sensitivity of xenograft RCC tumors (p = 0.017 by Pearson analysis). 
From patient tumor biopsies we analyzed, CREB3L1 was expressed in 19% of RCC,
which is generally resistant to doxorubicin, but in 70% of diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma that is sensitive to doxorubicin. Doxorubicin is used as the standard
treatment for cancers that express the highest levels of CREB3L1 such as
osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma but is not generally used to
treat those that express the lowest levels of CREB3L1 such as RCC.
CONCLUSION: Identification of CREB3L1 as the biomarker for doxorubicin
sensitivity may markedly improve the doxorubicin response rate by applying
doxorubicin only to patients with cancers expressing CREB3L1.

PMID: 26110425  [PubMed - in process]


180. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130653. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130653.
eCollection 2015.

Visual vs Fully Automatic Histogram-Based Assessment of Idiopathic Pulmonary
Fibrosis (IPF) Progression Using Sequential Multidetector Computed Tomography
(MDCT).

Colombi D(1), Dinkel J(2), Weinheimer O(3), Obermayer B(4), Buzan T(5), Nabers
D(6), Bauer C(7), Oltmanns U(7), Palmowski K(7), Herth F(7), Kauczor HU(3),
Sverzellati N(8), Kreuter M(7), Heussel CP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Diagnostic Imaging at University
of Parma, Parma, Italy; Translational Lung Research Centre (TLRC), Member of the 
German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany; Department of
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg,
Germany. (2)Translational Lung Research Centre (TLRC), Member of the German
Center for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany; Department of Diagnostic and
Interventional Radiology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany;
Department of Clinical Radiology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Translational Lung Research Centre (TLRC), Member of the German Center for
Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany; Department of Diagnostic and
Interventional Radiology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. (5)Translational Lung Research Centre (TLRC),
Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany;
Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University of Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany; Department of Pneumology, Iuliu Hatieganu University of
Medicine and Pharmacy in Cluj-Napoca, Cluj-Napoca, Romania. (6)Division of
Medical and Biological Informatics (E130), German Cancer Research Center (DFKZ), 
Heidelberg, Germany. (7)Translational Lung Research Centre (TLRC), Member of the 
German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany; Department of
Pneumology and respiratory critical care medicine, Center for interstitial and
rare lung diseases, Thoraxklinik at University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg,
Germany. (8)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Diagnostic Imaging at
University of Parma, Parma, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To describe changes over time in extent of idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis (IPF) at multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) assessed by
semi-quantitative visual scores (VSs) and fully automatic histogram-based
quantitative evaluation and to test the relationship between these two methods of
quantification.
METHODS: Forty IPF patients (median age: 70 y, interquartile: 62-75 years; M:F,
33:7) that underwent 2 MDCT at different time points with a median interval of 13
months (interquartile: 10-17 months) were retrospectively evaluated. In-house
software YACTA quantified automatically lung density histogram (10th-90th
percentile in 5th percentile steps). Longitudinal changes in VSs and in the
percentiles of attenuation histogram were obtained in 20 untreated patients and
20 patients treated with pirfenidone. Pearson correlation analysis was used to
test the relationship between VSs and selected percentiles.
RESULTS: In follow-up MDCT, visual overall extent of parenchymal abnormalities
(OE) increased in median by 5 %/year (interquartile: 0 %/y; +11 %/y). Substantial
difference was found between treated and untreated patients in HU changes of the 
40th and of the 80th percentiles of density histogram. Correlation analysis
between VSs and selected percentiles showed higher correlation between the
changes (Δ) in OE and Δ 40th percentile (r=0.69; p<0.001) as compared to Δ 80th
percentile (r=0.58; p<0.001); closer correlation was found between Δ ground-glass
extent and Δ 40th percentile (r=0.66, p<0.001) as compared to Δ 80th percentile
(r=0.47, p=0.002), while the Δ reticulations correlated better with the Δ 80th
percentile (r=0.56, p<0.001) in comparison to Δ 40th percentile (r=0.43,
p=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a relevant and fully automatically measurable difference at
MDCT in VSs and in histogram analysis at one year follow-up of IPF patients,
whether treated or untreated: Δ 40th percentile might reflect the change in
overall extent of lung abnormalities, notably of ground-glass pattern;
furthermore Δ 80th percentile might reveal the course of reticular opacities.

PMID: 26110421  [PubMed - in process]


181. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130524. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130524.
eCollection 2015.

Intrinsic Functional Plasticity of the Sensorimotor Network in
Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis: Evidence from a Centrality Analysis.

Zhuang Y(1), Zhou F(2), Gong H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University,
Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China; Department of Oncology, the Second Hospital of
Nanchang, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China. (2)Department of Radiology, the
First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province,
China; Jiangxi Province Medical Imaging Research Institute, Nanchang, Jiangxi
Province, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Advanced MRI studies have revealed regional alterations
in the sensorimotor cortex of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple
sclerosis (RRMS). However, the organizational features underlying the relapsing
phase and the subsequent remitting phase have not been directly shown at the
functional network or the connectome level. Therefore, this study aimed to
characterize MS-related centrality disturbances of the sensorimotor network (SMN)
and to assess network integrity and connectedness.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients with clinically definite RRMS and well-matched
healthy controls participated in the study. Twenty-three patients in the
remitting phase underwent one resting-state functional MRI, and 11 patients in
the relapsing-remitting phase underwent two different MRIs. We measured
voxel-wise centrality metrics to determine direct (degree centrality, DC) and
global (eigenvector centrality, EC) functional relationships across the entire
SMN.
RESULTS: In the relapsing phase, DC was significantly decreased in the bilateral 
primary motor and somatosensory cortex (M1/S1), left dorsal premotor (PMd), and
operculum-integrated regions. However, DC was increased in the peripheral SMN
areas. The decrease in DC in the bilateral M1/S1 was associated with the expanded
disability status scale (EDSS) and total white matter lesion loads (TWMLLs),
suggesting that this adaptive response is related to the extent of brain damage
in the rapid-onset attack stage. During the remission process, these alterations 
in centrality were restored in the bilateral M1/S1 and peripheral SMN areas. In
the remitting phase, DC was reduced in the premotor, supplementary motor, and
operculum-integrated regions, reflecting an adaptive response due to brain
atrophy. However, DC was enhanced in the right M1 and left parietal-integrated
regions, indicating chronic reorganization. In both the relapsing and remitting
phases, the changes in EC and DC were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: The alterations in centrality within the SMN indicate rapid
plasticity and chronic reorganization with a biased impairment of specific
functional areas in RRMS patients.

PMID: 26110420  [PubMed - in process]


182. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130739. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130739.
eCollection 2015.

Metabolic Profiles in Ovine Carotid Arteries with Developmental Maturation and
Long-Term Hypoxia.

Goyal R(1), Longo LD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Perinatal Biology, Department of Basic Sciences, School of
Medicine, Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, California, United States of
America.

BACKGROUND: Long-term hypoxia (LTH) is an important stressor related to health
and disease during development. At different time points from fetus to adult, we 
are exposed to hypoxic stress because of placental insufficiency, high-altitude
residence, smoking, chronic anemia, pulmonary, and heart disorders, as well as
cancers. Intrauterine hypoxia can lead to fetal growth restriction and long-term 
sequelae such as cognitive impairments, hypertension, cardiovascular disorders,
diabetes, and schizophrenia. Similarly, prolonged hypoxic exposure during adult
life can lead to acute mountain sickness, chronic fatigue, chronic headache,
cognitive impairment, acute cerebral and/or pulmonary edema, and death.
AIM: LTH also can lead to alteration in metabolites such as fumarate,
2-oxoglutarate, malate, and lactate, which are linked to epigenetic regulation of
gene expression. Importantly, during the intrauterine life, a fetus is under a
relative hypoxic environment, as compared to newborn or adult. Thus, the changes 
in gene expression with development from fetus to newborn to adult may be as a
consequence of underlying changes in the metabolic profile because of the hypoxic
environment along with developmental maturation. To examine this possibility, we 
examined the metabolic profile in carotid arteries from near-term fetus, newborn,
and adult sheep in both normoxic and long-term hypoxic acclimatized groups.
RESULTS: Our results demonstrate that LTH differentially regulated glucose
metabolism, mitochondrial metabolism, nicotinamide cofactor metabolism, oxidative
stress and antioxidants, membrane lipid hydrolysis, and free fatty acid
metabolism, each of which may play a role in genetic-epigenetic regulation.

PMID: 26110419  [PubMed - in process]


183. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0128377. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128377.
eCollection 2015.

Association of Climatic Variability, Vector Population and Malarial Disease in
District of Visakhapatnam, India: A Modeling and Prediction Analysis.

Srimath-Tirumula-Peddinti RC(1), Neelapu NR(1), Sidagam N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Bioinformatics, GITAM Institute of Science,
GITAM University, Rushikonda Campus, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Statistics, College of Science and Technology, Andhra
University, Waltair, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Malarial incidence, severity, dynamics and distribution of malaria
are strongly determined by climatic factors, i.e., temperature, precipitation,
and relative humidity. The objectives of the current study were to analyse and
model the relationships among climate, vector and malaria disease in district of 
Visakhapatnam, India to understand malaria transmission mechanism (MTM).
METHODOLOGY: Epidemiological, vector and climate data were analysed for the years
2005 to 2011 in Visakhapatnam to understand the magnitude, trends and seasonal
patterns of the malarial disease. Statistical software MINITAB ver. 14 was used
for performing correlation, linear and multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Perennial malaria disease incidence and mosquito population was
observed in the district of Visakhapatnam with peaks in seasons. All the climatic
variables have a significant influence on disease incidence as well as on
mosquito populations. Correlation coefficient analysis, seasonal index and
seasonal analysis demonstrated significant relationships among climatic factors, 
mosquito population and malaria disease incidence in the district of
Visakhapatnam, India. Multiple regression and ARIMA (I) models are best suited
models for modeling and prediction of disease incidences and mosquito population.
Predicted values of average temperature, mosquito population and malarial cases
increased along with the year. Developed MTM algorithm observed a major MTM cycle
following the June to August rains and occurring between June to September and
minor MTM cycles following March to April rains and occurring between March to
April in the district of Visakhapatnam. Fluctuations in climatic factors favored 
an increase in mosquito populations and thereby increasing the number of malarial
cases. Rainfall, temperatures (20°C to 33°C) and humidity (66% to 81%) maintained
a warmer, wetter climate for mosquito growth, parasite development and malaria
transmission.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Changes in climatic factors influence malaria directly 
by modifying the behaviour and geographical distribution of vectors and by
changing the length of the life cycle of the parasite.

PMID: 26110279  [PubMed - in process]


184. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0130961. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130961.
eCollection 2015.

Psychological Distress in the Hospital Setting: A Comparison between Native Dutch
and Immigrant Patients.

Haverkamp GL(1), Torensma B(2), Vergouwen AC(3), Honig A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Research department, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (2)Research department, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. (3)Department of Psychiatry, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands. (4)Department of Psychiatry, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of psychiatry, VU Medical Centre,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Prevalence of psychological distress (i.e. depressive and anxiety
symptoms) in medically ill patients is high. Research in the general population
shows a higher prevalence of psychological distress among immigrants compared to 
natives. Our aim was to examine the prevalence of psychological distress in the
hospital setting comparing immigrant and native Dutch patients and first and
second generation immigrant patients.
METHODS: Prevalence of psychological distress was assessed using the extended
Kessler-10 (EK-10) in 904 patients in a Dutch general teaching hospital. Logistic
regression was used to calculate odds ratios to determine differences between
native and immigrant patients and first and second generation immigrants in the
prevalence of psychological distress. We adjusted for demographic and social
variables, socio-economic status, physical quality of life, history of
psychiatric disease and health care use.
RESULTS: Of 904 patients, 585 were native Dutch patients and 319 were immigrant
patients. The prevalence of psychological distress in native compared to
immigrant patients was 54% and 66% respectively, with especially high prevalences
among Turkish and Moroccan immigrant patients. The crude OR for prevalence of
psychological distress for immigrant patients versus native patients was 1.7 (95%
CI 1.2-2.2) and for first versus second generation immigrant patients 2.1 (95% CI
1.2-3.5). After full adjustment ORs were 1.7 (95% CI 1.2-2.3) and 2.2 (95% CI
1.2-4.1) respectively.
CONCLUSION: Immigrant patients and first generation immigrant patients were more 
likely to have psychological distress compared to native patients and second
generation immigrant patients respectively. We found a particularly high
prevalence of psychological distress in Turkish and Moroccan immigrants.

PMID: 26110275  [PubMed - in process]


185. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0129155. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129155.
eCollection 2015.

The Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis Diagnosis and Treatment Cascade in
Bangladesh.

Hossain ST(1), Isaakidis P(2), Sagili KD(3), Islam S(1), Islam MA(1), Shewade
HD(4), Kamal SM(5), Husain A(6).

Author information: 
(1)TB Control Programme, BRAC, Dhaka, Bangladesh. (2)MédecinsSansFrontières,
Operational Research Unit, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg. (3)International Union
Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (The Union), South-East Asia Regional
Office, New Delhi, India. (4)Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences
(MGIMS), Sevagram, Wardha, India. (5)NationalTuberculosis Reference Laboratory,
NIDCH, Dhaka, Bangladesh. (6)National Tuberculosis Control Programme, DGHS,
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVES: To determine, in areas supported by BRAC, Bangladesh i) the
pre-diagnosis and pre-treatment attrition among presumptive and confirmed
Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDR-TB) patients and ii) factors associated
with attrition.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study involving record review.
Presumptive MDR-TB patients from peripheral microscopy centres serving 60% of the
total population of Bangladesh were included in the study. Attrition and
turnaround time for MDR-TB diagnosis by Xpert MTB/RIF and treatment initiation
were calculated between July 2012 and June 2014.
RESULTS: Of 836 presumptive MDR-TB patients referred from 398 peripheral
microscopy centres, 161 MDR-TB patients were diagnosed. The number of diagnosed
MDR-TB patients was less than country estimates of MDR-TB patients (2000 cases)
during the study period. Among those referred, pre-diagnosis and pre-treatment
attrition was 17% and 21% respectively. Median turnaround time for MDR-TB
testing, result receipt and treatment initiation was four, zero and five days
respectively. Farmers (RR=2.3, p=0.01) and daily wage laborers (RR=2.1, p=0.04)
had twice the risk of having pre-diagnosis attrition. Poor record-keeping and
unreliable upkeep of presumptive MDR-TB patient databases were identified as
challenges at the peripheral microscopy centres.
CONCLUSION: There was a low proportion of pre-diagnosis and pre-treatment
attrition in patients with presumptive and confirmed MDR-TB under programmatic
conditions. However, the recording and reporting system did not detect all
presumptive MDR-TB patients, highlighting the need to improve the system in order
to prevent morbidity, mortality and transmission of MDR-TB in the community.

PMID: 26110273  [PubMed - in process]


186. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 25;10(6):e0131470. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131470.
eCollection 2015.

Emotion Processing in Parkinson's Disease: A Three-Level Study on Recognition,
Representation, and Regulation.

Enrici I(1), Adenzato M(2), Ardito RB(3), Mitkova A(4), Cavallo M(5), Zibetti
M(6), Lopiano L(7), Castelli L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Philosophy and Educational Sciences, University of Turin, Turin,
Italy; Center for Cognitive Science, University of Turin, Turin, Italy;
Neuroscience Institute of Turin, Turin, Italy. (2)Center for Cognitive Science,
University of Turin, Turin, Italy; Neuroscience Institute of Turin, Turin, Italy;
Department of Psychology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (3)Center for
Cognitive Science, University of Turin, Turin, Italy; Department of Psychology,
University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (4)Department of Psychology, University of
Turin, Turin, Italy. (5)eCampus University, Novedrate, Como, Italy; Azienda
Sanitaria Locale Torino 3, Turin, Italy. (6)Department of Neuroscience,
University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (7)Neuroscience Institute of Turin, Turin,
Italy; Department of Neuroscience, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by well-known motor
symptoms, whereas the presence of cognitive non-motor symptoms, such as emotional
disturbances, is still underestimated. One of the major problems in studying
emotion deficits in PD is an atomising approach that does not take into account
different levels of emotion elaboration. Our study addressed the question of
whether people with PD exhibit difficulties in one or more specific dimensions of
emotion processing, investigating three different levels of analyses, that is,
recognition, representation, and regulation.
METHODOLOGY: Thirty-two consecutive medicated patients with PD and 25 healthy
controls were enrolled in the study. Participants performed a three-level
analysis assessment of emotional processing using quantitative standardised
emotional tasks: the Ekman 60-Faces for emotion recognition, the full 36-item
version of the Reading the Mind in the Eyes (RME) for emotion representation, and
the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) for emotion regulation.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Regarding emotion recognition, patients obtained
significantly worse scores than controls in the total score of Ekman 60-Faces but
not in any other basic emotions. For emotion representation, patients obtained
significantly worse scores than controls in the RME experimental score but no in 
the RME gender control task. Finally, on emotion regulation, PD and controls did 
not perform differently at TAS-20 and no specific differences were found on
TAS-20 subscales. The PD impairments on emotion recognition and representation do
not correlate with dopamine therapy, disease severity, or with the duration of
illness. These results are independent from other cognitive processes, such as
global cognitive status and executive function, or from psychiatric status, such 
as depression, anxiety or apathy.
CONCLUSIONS: These results may contribute to better understanding of the
emotional problems that are often seen in patients with PD and the measures used 
to test these problems, in particular on the use of different versions of the RME
task.

PMID: 26110271  [PubMed - in process]


187. S Afr Med J. 2014 Nov;104(11):779-84. doi: 10.7196/SAMJ.8257.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy: High-resolution melting curve analysis as an
affordable diagnostic mutation scanning tool in a South African cohort.

Esterhuizen AI(1), Wilmshurst JM, Goliath RG, Greenberg LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences,
Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health
Sciences, University of Cape Town, South Africa; National Health Laboratory
Service, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
alina.esterhuizen@nhls.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy (D/BMD) is an X-linked recessive
muscle disorder affecting 1/3 500 live male births worldwide. Up to 70% of all
D/BMD cases are caused by exonic deletions or duplications routinely identified
in diagnostic laboratories worldwide.The remaining patients harbour other
sequence alterations for which testing availability is limited owing to the
expense of interrogating the large DMD gene. Genetic screening for D/BMD in South
Africa currently includes multiple ligase-dependent probe amplification (MLPA)
for exonic deletions and duplications and linkage analysis. No genetic testing
for small mutations in the DMD gene is offered, leaving a third of D/BMD families
without genetic closure. The advent of potential mutation-specific therapies for 
DMD necessitates comprehensive testing protocols.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effectiveness and affordability of high-resolution 
melting curve analysis (hrMCA) for detection of small/point mutations in the DMD 
gene, for possible inclusion into the local public health-funded diagnostic
service.
METHODS: DNA from 24 patients who had previously tested deletion-negative with
multiplex polymerase chain reaction (mPCR) was analysed by MLPA and hrMCA.
RESULTS: MLPA revealed eight previously undetected exonic rearrangements: five
deletions and three duplications. HrMCA of the remaining samples revealed three
nonsense, four frameshifts, one splice-site, one missense and one single-base
substitution in the Dp427promoter/exon1 of the DMD gene. In addition, 41
polymorphisms and three changes of uncertain significance were detected.
CONCLUSION: These findings identify hrMCA as an affordable and effective mutation
scanning tool for incorporation into the local diagnostic setting, allowing for
better genetic counselling of more DMD families and selection of potential
candidates for future therapies.

PMID: 26110187  [PubMed - in process]


188. Epilepsy Behav Case Rep. 2015 Jun 14;4:27-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ebcr.2015.05.004.
eCollection 2015.

Unilateral periventricular heterotopia and epilepsy in a girl with Ehlers-Danlos 
syndrome.

Savasta S(1), Verrotti A(2), Spartà MV(1), Foiadelli T(1), Villa MP(3), Parisi
P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pavia University, Pavia, Italy ; IRCCS San Matteo,
Pavia, Italy. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Perugia University, Perugia, Italy.
(3)NESMOS Department, Child Neurology, Chair of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine &
Psychology, Sant'Andrea Hospital, "Sapienza University", Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), comprising a variety of inherited
connective tissue disorders, has already been described in association with
various neurological features, particularly with epilepsy and periventricular
heterotopia (PH). Until now, there are reports of only bilateral periventricular 
heterotopia associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Here we describe a 1-year, 4-month-old female who came under
our care in the Pediatric Emergency Room because of prolonged afebrile
generalized seizures, whose clinical picture allowed us to suspect a diagnosis of
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Neuroradiological investigations showed unilateral
periventricular heterotopias, and genetic analyses confirmed the hypothesized
diagnosis, identifying in particular a mutation in the COL5A1 gene. After
starting anticonvulsant therapy, her seizures showed a good response with seizure
control and she had a favorable long-term course.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first report of unilateral
periventricular heterotopia associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. We first
hypothesized a mosaicism as the cause of both, a unilateral localization of the
heterotopias and a favorable long-term course with good response to
anticonvulsant therapy; however, intriguingly, we could not demonstrate a
mosaicism as the genetic condition in our patient and the neuroradiological
findings and the favorable clinical outcome still remain unexplained.

PMCID: PMC4477102
PMID: 26110114  [PubMed]


189. Neuroimage Clin. 2015 Apr 29;8:230-7. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2015.04.016.
eCollection 2015.

Hippocampal volume correlates with attenuated negative psychotic symptoms
irrespective of antidepressant medication.

Bernasconi R(1), Smieskova R(1), Schmidt A(2), Harrisberger F(1), Raschle NM(1), 
Lenz C(1), Walter A(1), Simon A(1), Riecher-Rössler A(1), Radue EW(3), Lang
UE(1), Fusar-Poli P(2), Borgwardt SJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry (UPK), Wilhelm Klein-Strasse 27, Basel, Switzerland. 
(2)Department of Psychiatry (UPK), Wilhelm Klein-Strasse 27, Basel, Switzerland ;
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London,
London, UK. (3)Medical Image Analysis Centre, University Hospital, Basel,
Switzerland. (4)Department of Psychiatry (UPK), Wilhelm Klein-Strasse 27, Basel, 
Switzerland ; Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's
College London, London, UK ; Medical Image Analysis Centre, University Hospital, 
Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with at-risk mental state for psychosis (ARMS) often
suffer from depressive and anxiety symptoms, which are clinically similar to the 
negative symptomatology described for psychosis. Thus, many ARMS individuals are 
already being treated with antidepressant medication.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate clinical and structural differences between psychosis 
high-risk individuals with or without antidepressants.
METHODS: We compared ARMS individuals currently receiving antidepressants
(ARMS-AD; n = 18), ARMS individuals not receiving antidepressants (ARMS-nonAD;
n = 31) and healthy subjects (HC; n = 24), in terms of brain structure
abnormalities, using voxel-based morphometry. We also performed region of
interest analysis for the hippocampus, anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala and
precuneus.
RESULTS: The ARMS-AD had higher 'depression' and lower 'motor hyperactivity'
scores than the ARMS-nonAD. Compared to HC, there was significantly less GMV in
the middle frontal gyrus in the whole ARMS cohort and in the superior frontal
gyrus in the ARMS-AD subgroup. Compared to ARMS-nonAD, the ARMS-AD group showed
more gray matter volume (GMV) in the left superior parietal lobe, but less GMV in
the left hippocampus and the right precuneus. We found a significant negative
correlation between attenuated negative symptoms and hippocampal volume in the
whole ARMS cohort.
CONCLUSION: Reduced GMV in the hippocampus and precuneus is associated with
short-term antidepressant medication and more severe depressive symptoms.
Hippocampal volume is further negatively correlated with attenuated negative
psychotic symptoms. Longitudinal studies are needed to distinguish whether
hippocampal volume deficits in the ARMS are related to attenuated negative
psychotic symptoms or to antidepressant action.

PMCID: PMC4473852
PMID: 26110110  [PubMed - in process]


190. Springerplus. 2015 May 15;4:227. doi: 10.1186/s40064-015-0975-x. eCollection
2015.

Methotrexate utilization in Rheumatoid arthritis. A register-based cohort-study
of treatment re-starts after gabs of at least 90 days.

de Thurah A(1), Nørgaard M(2), Stengaard-Pedersen K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Aarhus University Hospital, Nørrebrogade 44, 8000 
Aarhus, Denmark ; Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus,
Denmark. (2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, 
University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To examine restart of MTX treatment among patients with rheumatoid
arthritis (RA) who discontinues treatment, and investigate predictors of restart.
METHODS: A cohort study was conducted based on data from medical databases. MTX
drug discontinuation was defined as a gap ≥ 90 days from the expiration of one
MTX prescription to the redemption of a new one. Kaplan Meier estimates were used
to compute the cumulative probability of restarting MTX treatment and Cox
proportional hazard to estimate the hazard of return to treatment. A
case-crossover analysis compared the frequency of events that could potentially
have a transient effect on MTX restart.
RESULTS: Among 788 patients, who started MTX, 299 patients experienced a
gap ≥ 90 days. Within 1.4 years 50 % of these patients returned to treatment, and
a total of 66 % restarted treatment during follow-up. Concurrent treatment with
corticosteroid and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) tended to be
negatively associated with MTX restart (OR: 0.7(95 % CI: 0.5-1.2) and (OR: 0.7
(95 % CI: 0.4-1.0)). Older patients were less inclined to restart treatment than 
middle-aged patients (Adjustet HR 0.7 (0.4-1.2)). Patients with a
CRP > 300 nmol/L less often restarted MTX than patients with a CRP < 75 nmol/L
(adjHR: 0.6 (95 % CI 0.3-1.2)), and men were more inclined to MTX restart than
women (adjHR 1.30 (95 % CI 0.9-2.0)).
CONCLUSION: It is important to support patients in remaining continuous users of 
MTX. A large proportion of RA patients who discontinued MTX later restarted
treatment, but especially patients with high disease activity, old age or
co-morbidity were less inclined to restart treatment.

PMCID: PMC4474972
PMID: 26110100  [PubMed]


191. Southwest J Pulm Crit Care. 2015;10(5):289-299.

Gender Differences in Real-Home Sleep of Young and Older Couples.

Butt M(1), Quan SF(2), Pentland AS(3), Khayal I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Masdar Institute of Science and Technology, Abu Dhabi, UAE. (2)Division of
Sleep Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA ; Arizona Respiratory
Center, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Tucson, AZ, USA ; Division of 
Sleep and Circadian Disorders, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA. (4)Masdar Institute
of Science and Technology, Abu Dhabi, UAE ; Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To understand gender differences in sleep quality, architecture
and duration of young healthy couples in comparison to older couples in their
natural sleep environment.
DESIGN: Sleep was monitored in a naturalistic setting using a headband sleep
monitoring device over a period of two weeks for young couples and home
polysomnography for the older couples.
PARTICIPANTS: Ten heterosexual young couples (male mean age: 28.2±1.0[SD]
years/female mean age: 26.8±0.9 years) and 14 older couples (male mean age:
59.3±9.6 years/female mean age: 58.8±9.1 years).
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: In the young couples, total sleep time (395±66 vs.
367±54 min., p<0.05), sleep efficiency (97.0±3.0 vs. 91.1±7.9, p<0.001), and %
REM (31.1±4.8 vs. 23.6±5.5, p<0.001) in males was higher than in females. In
contrast, % light sleep (51.7±7.1 vs. 59.7±6.7, p<0.001) and number of arousals
(2.9±1.9 vs. 5.3±1.9, p<0.001) were lower. These differences persisted after
controlling for evening mood and various evening pre-sleep activities. In the
older couples, there were no differences between genders. In addition, children
in the household adversely impacted sleep.
CONCLUSIONS: In couples recorded in the home, young males slept longer and had
better sleep quality than young females. This difference appears to dissipate
with age. In-home assessment of couples can aid in understanding of gender
differences in sleep and how they are affected by age and social environment.

PMCID: PMC4476541
PMID: 26110099  [PubMed]


192. J Pathol Inform. 2015 Jun 3;6:31. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.158066. eCollection
2015.

Comparative study between quantitative digital image analysis and fluorescence in
situ hybridization of breast cancer equivocal human epidermal growth factor
receptors 2 score 2(+) cases.

Ayad E(1), Mansy M(1), Elwi D(1), Salem M(1), Salama M(2), Kayser K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt. 
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Utah and ARUP Reference Lab, Utah, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Humbold University Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Optimization of workflow for breast cancer samples with equivocal
human epidermal growth factor receptors 2 (HER2)/neu score 2(+) results in
routine practice, remains to be a central focus of the on-going efforts to assess
HER2 status. According to the College of American Pathologists/American Society
of Clinical Oncology guidelines equivocal HER2/neu score 2(+) cases are subject
for further testing, usually by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)
investigations. It still remains on open question, whether quantitative digital
image analysis of HER2 immunohistochemistry (IHC) stained slides can assist in
further refining the HER2 score 2(+).
AIM OF THIS WORK: To assess utility of quantitative digital analysis of IHC
stained slides and compare its performance to FISH in cases of breast cancer with
equivocal HER2 score 2(+).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen specimens (previously diagnosed as breast cancer
and was evaluated as HER 2(-) score 2(+)) represented the study population.
Contemporary new cuts were prepared for re-evaluation of HER2 immunohistochemical
studies and FISH examination. All the cases were digitally scanned by iScan
(Produced by BioImagene [Now Roche-Ventana]). The IHC signals of HER2 were
measured using an automated image analyzing system (MECES,
www.Diagnomx.eu/meces). Finally, a comparative study was done between the results
of the FISH and the quantitative analysis of the virtual slides.
RESULTS: Three out of the 15 cases with equivocal HER2 score 2(+), turned out to 
be positive (3(+)) by quantitative digital analysis, and 12 were found to be
negative in FISH too. Two of these three positive cases proved to be positive
with FISH, and only one was negative.
CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative digital analysis is highly sensitive and relatively
specific when compared to FISH in detecting HER2/neu overexpression. Therefore,
it represents a potential reliable substitute for FISH in breast cancer cases,
which desire further refinement of equivocal IHC results.

PMCID: PMC4470009
PMID: 26110098  [PubMed]


193. J Pathol Inform. 2015 Jun 3;6:30. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.158063. eCollection
2015.

The use of virtual microscopy and a wiki in pathology education: Tracking student
use, involvement, and response.

Leifer Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pre-clinical Sciences, New York College of Podiatric Medicine,
New York, NY 10035, USA.

BACKGROUND: The pathology laboratory course at the New York College of Podiatric 
Medicine involves the use of Virtual Microscopy. The students can scan the whole 
slide, section by section, and zoom in or out.
METHODS: Using the advantages of digital pathology, the students can, in
addition, access the slide collections from other medical schools and put up
normal histology (control) slides side-by-side with the pathology. They can cut
and paste and preserve the region of interest that they find. They can edit and
annotate their slides. A wiki was created (http://pathlab2014.wikifoundry.com)for
the Class of 2014. The students saved, edited and uploaded their slides. In the
wiki format, other students could comment, further edit, and even delete the
slides.
RESULTS: The students studied Basic Mechanisms and System Pathology. During this 
time, they saved, edited, shared, and uploaded their slides to the wiki. These
were available in one full presentation and were also grouped into 16 albums.
They were available to all. Student access was followed by Google analytics. At
the end of the course, a questionnaire was distributed, assessing their
impression of the wiki format and soliciting strengths and weaknesses.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of a wiki has a number of important advantages in pathology 
education. It trains the students in the more sophisticated skills that they will
use as professional pathologists or as clinicians: (1) Telepathology-it enables
them to share slides and discuss observations. (2) Archiving and retrieval - It
models the challenge faced by hospitals, diagnostic labs and physicians in
maintaining a collection of slides in a form that is easily accessible. (3) Image
analysis-familiarity with the wiki format allows them to jump easily to capturing
and storing images found in the literature or in a pathologist's report.
Experience with the use of a wiki in pathology education has been quite
satisfactory from both the faculty and the student's point of view.

PMCID: PMC4470013
PMID: 26110097  [PubMed]


194. J Pathol Inform. 2015 Jun 3;6:26. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.158044. eCollection
2015.

Enhancing automatic classification of hepatocellular carcinoma images through
image masking, tissue changes and trabecular features.

Aziz MA(1), Kanazawa H(2), Murakami Y(2), Kimura F(2), Yamaguchi M(3), Kiyuna
T(4), Yamashita Y(5), Saito A(4), Ishikawa M(6), Kobayashi N(6), Abe T(7),
Hashiguchi A(7), Sakamoto M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Information Processing, Interdisciplinary Graduate School of
Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259-S1-17 Nagatsuta,
Midori, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226-8503, Japan. (2)Global Scientific Information and 
Computing Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1-I7-6 Ookayama, Meguro-ku,
Tokyo 152-8550, Japan. (3)Department of Information Processing, Interdisciplinary
Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
4259-S1-17 Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226-8503, Japan ; Global
Scientific Information and Computing Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
2-12-1-I7-6 Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan. (4)Medical Solutions
Division, NEC Corporation, 5-7-1 Shiba Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8001, Japan.
(5)Department of Information Processing, Interdisciplinary Graduate School of
Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259-S1-17 Nagatsuta,
Midori, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226-8503, Japan ; Medical Solutions Division, NEC
Corporation, 5-7-1 Shiba Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8001, Japan. (6)Faculty of Health
and Medical Care, Saitama Medical University, 1397-1 Yamane, Hidaka-shi, Saitama 
350-1241, Japan. (7)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, Keio University,
35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Recent breakthroughs in computer vision and digital microscopy have
prompted the application of such technologies in cancer diagnosis, especially in 
histopathological image analysis. Earlier, an attempt to classify hepatocellular 
carcinoma images based on nuclear and structural features has been carried out on
a set of surgical resected samples. Here, we proposed methods to enhance the
process and improve the classification performance.
METHODS: First, we segmented the histological components of the liver tissues and
generated several masked images. By utilizing the masked images, some set of new 
features were introduced, producing three sets of features consisting nuclei,
trabecular and tissue changes features. Furthermore, we extended the
classification process by using biopsy resected samples in addition to the
surgical samples.
RESULTS: Experiments by using support vector machine (SVM) classifier with
combinations of features and sample types showed that the proposed methods
improve the classification rate in HCC detection for about 1-3%. Moreover,
detection rate of low-grades cancer increased when the new features were appended
in the classification process, although the rate was worsen in the case of
undifferentiated tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: The masking process increased the reliability of extracted nuclei
features. The additional of new features improved the system especially for early
HCC detection. Likewise, the combination of surgical and biopsy samples as
training data could also improve the classification rates. Therefore, the methods
will extend the support for pathologists in the HCC diagnosis.

PMCID: PMC4470016
PMID: 26110093  [PubMed]


195. J Pathol Inform. 2015 Jun 3;6:25. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.158042. eCollection
2015.

Reimagining the microscope in the 21(st) century using the scalable adaptive
graphics environment.

Mateevitsi V(1), Patel T(2), Leigh J(3), Levy B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science (MC 152), University of Illinois at Chicago, IL
60607, USA. (2)Department of Pathology (MC 847), University of Illinois at
Chicago, IL 60607, USA. (3)Laboratory for Advanced Visualizations and
Applications, University of Hawai'i at Manoa, 309 Pacific Ocean Sciences and
Technology Building (POST), Honolulu 96822, Hawaii, USA.

BACKGROUND: Whole-slide imaging (WSI), while technologically mature, remains in
the early adopter phase of the technology adoption lifecycle. One reason for this
current situation is that current methods of visualizing and using WSI closely
follow long-existing workflows for glass slides. We set out to "reimagine" the
digital microscope in the era of cloud computing by combining WSI with the rich
collaborative environment of the Scalable Adaptive Graphics Environment (SAGE).
SAGE is a cross-platform, open-source visualization and collaboration tool that
enables users to access, display and share a variety of data-intensive
information, in a variety of resolutions and formats, from multiple sources, on
display walls of arbitrary size.
METHODS: A prototype of a WSI viewer app in the SAGE environment was created.
While not full featured, it enabled the testing of our hypothesis that these
technologies could be blended together to change the essential nature of how
microscopic images are utilized for patient care, medical education, and
research.
RESULTS: Using the newly created WSI viewer app, demonstration scenarios were
created in the patient care and medical education scenarios. This included a live
demonstration of a pathology consultation at the International Academy of Digital
Pathology meeting in Boston in November 2014.
CONCLUSIONS: SAGE is well suited to display, manipulate and collaborate using
WSIs, along with other images and data, for a variety of purposes. It goes beyond
how glass slides and current WSI viewers are being used today, changing the
nature of digital pathology in the process. A fully developed WSI viewer app
within SAGE has the potential to encourage the wider adoption of WSI throughout
pathology.

PMCID: PMC4470015
PMID: 26110092  [PubMed]


196. J Pathol Inform. 2015 May 28;6:22. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.157788. eCollection
2015.

Whole slide imaging for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
immunohistochemistry interpretation: Accuracy, Precision, and reproducibility
studies for digital manual and paired glass slide manual interpretation.

Wilbur DC(1), Brachtel EF(1), Gilbertson JR(1), Jones NC(2), Vallone JG(3),
Krishnamurthy S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. (2)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of Pathology, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California, USA. (4)Department of Pathology, MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of digital whole slide imaging for human epidermal growth
factor receptor 2 (HER2) immunohistochemistry (IHC) could create improvements in 
workflow and performance, allowing for central archiving of specimens,
distributed and remote interpretation, and the potential for additional
computerized automation.
PROCEDURES: The accuracy, precision, and reproducibility of manual digital
interpretation for HER2 IHC were determined by comparison to manual glass slide
interpretation. Inter- and intra-pathologist reproducibility and precision
between the glass slide and digital interpretations of HER2 IHC were determined
in 5 studies using DAKO HercepTest-stained breast cancer slides with the Philips 
Digital Pathology System. In 2 inter-method studies, 3 pathologists interpreted
glass and digital slides in sequence or in random order with a minimum of 7 days 
as a washout period. These studies also measured inter-observer reproducibility
and precision. Another two studies measured intra-pathologist reproducibility on 
cases read 10 times by glass and digital methods. One additional study evaluated 
the effects of adding IHC control slides with each run, using 1 pathologist
interpreting glass and digital slides randomized from the sets above along with
appropriate controls for each slide in the set.
RESULTS: The overall results show that there is no statistical difference between
the variance of performance when comparing glass and digital HER2
interpretations; and there were no effects noted when control tissues were
evaluated in conjunction with the test slides.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that there is an equivalence of result when
interpreting HER2 IHC slides in breast cancer by either glass slides or digital
images. Digital interpretation can therefore be safely and effectively used for
this purpose.

PMCID: PMC4466789
PMID: 26110090  [PubMed]


197. J Pathol Inform. 2015 May 28;6:21. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.157785. eCollection
2015.

Prospector: A web-based tool for rapid acquisition of gold standard data for
pathology research and image analysis.

Wright AI(1), Magee DR(2), Quirke P(1), Treanor DE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Pathology, Anatomy and Tumour Biology, Leeds Institute of Cancer
and Pathology, University of Leeds, UK. (2)School of Computing, University of
Leeds, UK. (3)Section of Pathology, Anatomy and Tumour Biology, Leeds Institute
of Cancer and Pathology, University of Leeds, UK ; Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS
Trust, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Obtaining ground truth for pathological images is essential for
various experiments, especially for training and testing image analysis
algorithms. However, obtaining pathologist input is often difficult, time
consuming and expensive. This leads to algorithms being over-fitted to small
datasets, and inappropriate validation, which causes poor performance on real
world data. There is a great need to gather data from pathologists in a simple
and efficient manner, in order to maximise the amount of data obtained.
METHODS: We present a lightweight, web-based HTML5 system for administering and
participating in data collection experiments. The system is designed for rapid
input with minimal effort, and can be accessed from anywhere in the world with a 
reliable internet connection.
RESULTS: We present two case studies that use the system to assess how
limitations on fields of view affect pathologist agreement, and to what extent
poorly stained slides affect judgement. In both cases, the system collects
pathologist scores at a rate of less than two seconds per image.
CONCLUSIONS: The system has multiple potential applications in pathology and
other domains.

PMCID: PMC4466790
PMID: 26110089  [PubMed]


198. J Pathol Inform. 2015 May 28;6:20. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.157782. eCollection
2015.

Automated morphometry provides accurate and reproducible virtual staging of liver
fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.

Calès P(1), Chaigneau J(2), Hunault G(2), Michalak S(3), Cavaro-Menard C(4),
Fasquel JB(4), Bertrais S(2), Rousselet MC(3).

Author information: 
(1)HIFIH Laboratory, Unité Propre de Recherche de l'Enseignement Supérieur 3859, 
Sructure Fédérative de Recherche 4208, LUNAM University, Angers, France ;
Department of Liver-Gastroenterology, LUNAM University, Angers, France. (2)HIFIH 
Laboratory, Unité Propre de Recherche de l'Enseignement Supérieur 3859, Sructure 
Fédérative de Recherche 4208, LUNAM University, Angers, France. (3)HIFIH
Laboratory, Unité Propre de Recherche de l'Enseignement Supérieur 3859, Sructure 
Fédérative de Recherche 4208, LUNAM University, Angers, France ; Department of
Cellular and Tissue Pathology, CHU Angers, LUNAM University, Angers, France.
(4)Department of LARIS Laboratory, Unité Propre de Recherche de l'Enseignement
Supérieur 7315, LUNAM University, Angers, France.

BACKGROUND: Liver fibrosis staging provides prognostic value, although hampered
by observer variability. We used digital analysis to develop diagnostic
morphometric scores for significant fibrosis, cirrhosis and fibrosis staging in
chronic hepatitis C.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We automated the measurement of 44 classical and new
morphometric descriptors. The reference was histological METAVIR fibrosis (F)
staging (F0 to F4) on liver biopsies. The derivation population included 416
patients and liver biopsies ≥20 mm-length. Two validation population included 438
patients.
RESULTS: In the derivation population, the area under the receiver operating
characteristic (AUROC) for clinically significant fibrosis (F stage ≥2) of a
logistic score combining 5 new descriptors (stellar fibrosis area, edge
linearity, bridge thickness, bridge number, nodularity) was 0.957. The AUROC for 
cirrhosis of 6 new descriptors (edge linearity, nodularity, portal stellar
fibrosis area, portal distance, granularity, fragmentation) was 0.994. Predicted 
METAVIR F staging combining 8 morphometric descriptors agreed well with METAVIR F
staging by pathologists: κ = 0.868. Morphometric score of clinically significant 
fibrosis had a higher correlation with porto-septal fibrosis area (r s = 0.835)
than METAVIR F staging (r s = 0.756, P < 0.001) and the same correlations with
fibrosis biomarkers, e.g., serum hyaluronate: r s = 0.484 versus r s = 0.476 for 
METAVIR F (P = 0.862). In the validation population, the AUROCs of clinically
significant fibrosis and cirrhosis scores were, respectively: 0.893 and 0.993 in 
153 patients (biopsy < 20 mm); 0.955 and 0.994 in 285 patients (biopsy ≥ 20 mm). 
The three morphometric diagnoses agreed with consensus expert reference as well
as or better than diagnoses by first-line pathologists in 285 patients,
respectively: significant fibrosis: 0.733 versus 0.733 (κ), cirrhosis: 0.900
versus 0.827, METAVIR F: 0.881 versus 0.865.
CONCLUSION: The new automated morphometric scores provide reproducible and
accurate diagnoses of fibrosis stages via "virtual expert pathologist."

PMCID: PMC4466784
PMID: 26110088  [PubMed]


199. J Pathol Inform. 2015 May 28;6:19. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.157781. eCollection
2015.

Rapid on-site evaluation with dynamic telecytopathology for ultrasound-guided
fine-needle aspiration of head and neck nonthyroid lesions.

Khurana KK(1), Xu W(1), Wang D(2), Swarnkar A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, State University of New York, Syracuse, New York,
USA. (2)Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, State University of 
New York, Syracuse, New York, USA. (3)Department of Radiology, State University
of New York, Syracuse, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) at the time of ultrasound-guided
fine-needle aspiration (USGFNA) of head and neck lesion is essential for
obtaining adequate samples and providing the preliminary diagnosis. We summarize 
our experience with ROSE of USGFNA on head and neck nonthyroid lesions using
telecytopathology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Real-time images of Diff-Quik stained cytology smears were
obtained at ultrasound suite with an Olympus DP-70 digital camera attached to an 
Olympus CX41 microscope, and transmitted via ethernet by a cytotechnologist to a 
cytopathologist in cytopathology laboratory who rendered a preliminary diagnosis.
Live communication was conducted with Vocera voice communication system. The
ultrasound suite was located on different floor from the cytopathology
laboratory. Accuracy of ROSE via telecytopathology was compared with an equal
number of cases that received ROSE, prior to introduction of telecytopathology,
via conventional microscopy.
RESULTS: Rapid on-site evaluation was performed on a total of 116 USGFNA of head 
and neck nonthyroid lesions. The telecytopathology system and conventional
microscopy was used to evaluate equal number of cases (58 each). Preliminary
diagnoses of benign, atypical/suspicious for malignancy, and positive for
malignancy were 72.4%, 17.2% and 10.3% for telecytopathology, and 69.0%, 10.3%
and 20.7% for conventional microscopy. None of the cases were deemed
unsatisfactory. The overall concordance between the preliminary and final
diagnoses was 94.8% for telecytopathology and 98.3% for conventional microscopy
and was not statistically significant (P = 0.309). The causes of discordant
preliminary and final diagnoses were mainly attributed to availability of cell
block and Papanicolaou-stained slides for review or flow cytometry results for
lymphoma cases at the time of final sign out.
CONCLUSIONS: Telecytopathology is comparable with conventional microscopy in ROSE
of USGFNA of head and neck nonthyroid lesions.

PMCID: PMC4466783
PMID: 26110087  [PubMed]


200. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Jun 10;6:102. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.158518. eCollection
2015.

Surgical treatment of the intracranial pial arteriovenous fistula.

da Silva Martins WC(1), de Albuquerque LA(1), de Souza Filho CB(1), Dellaretti
M(1), de Sousa AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Santa Casa de Misericordia Hospital, Belo
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Pial arteriovenous fistula (PAVF) is a rare vascular condition
comprising of one or more arterial vessels that are in direct communication with 
the draining veins. The condition is also characterized by the absence of a
nidus. Due to high blood flows, varicose systems adjacent to the fistula appear. 
The key characteristic of the arteriovenous direct transition is that it offers a
treatment option in which interruption of the blood flow can occur without
removing the entire lesion. This study presents two cases of PAVF.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The first case is of a 59-year-old male with lesions in the
frontal region, fed by a branch of the right anterior cerebral artery and drained
by the frontal basal vein to the sphenoparietal sinus. The second case is of a
3-year-old child with a lesion in the right anterior frontal lobe, fed by a
branch of the right middle cerebral artery, which drains into the Trolard vein
and was associated with large a venous varix.
CONCLUSION: PAVF is a disease characterized by its rarity, and knowledge of
PAVF's clinical presentation is of vital importance in early diagnosis. The
treatment of the condition consists of an occlusion of the supply vessel, which
can be done by endovascular, microsurgical, or both procedures. Both the cases
were successfully treated by microsurgical procedure.

PMCID: PMC4476140
PMID: 26110083  [PubMed]


201. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Jun 10;6:101. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.158515. eCollection
2015.

Microsurgical clipping for the true posterior communicating artery aneurysm in
the distal portion of the posterior communicating artery.

Takeda M(1), Kashimura H(1), Chida K(1), Murakami T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Iwate Prefectural Chubu Hospital, Kitakami, Iwate,
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Aneurysms arising from the posterior communicating artery (PCoA)
itself are rare in which aneurysms usually located in the proximal portion of the
PCoA. The authors report a case of the true PCoA ruptured aneurysm in the distal 
portion of the PCoA.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The patient was an 83-year-old man who suffered subarachnoid
hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed a saccular aneurysm arising on the
fetal type right PCoA itself in the distal portion of the PCoA. 2 days after the 
onset of symptoms, the patient underwent right interfascial pterional craniotomy,
with anterior temporal approach. The aneurysm was successfully clipped with the
preservation of both the PCoA and the thalamoperforating artery.
CONCLUSION: We speculated that blood flow into the PCoA gradually increased after
occlusion of the left vertebral artery, which induced tortuosity of the PCoA. As 
a result, hemodynamic stress might increase near the curvature and cause aneurysm
formation.

PMCID: PMC4476138
PMID: 26110082  [PubMed]


202. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Jun 9;6:99. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.158458. eCollection
2015.

Minimal access microsurgical ligation of spinal dural arteriovenous fistula with 
tubular retractor.

On Tsang AC(1), Hang Tse PY(1), Ting Ng GH(1), Kit Leung GK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Neurosurgery, Li Ka Shing Faculty of
Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Open surgical ligation is an effective treatment of spinal dural
arteriovenous fistula (SDAVF). Until recently, the procedure would require an
open laminectomy, which may potentially cause significant postoperative pain,
spinal deformity, and instability due to disruptions of the spinal mechanics.
Development in minimal access spine surgery provides an alternative approach that
can minimize bone and soft tissue trauma.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We report two patients who presented with progressive
paraparesis secondary to thoracolumbar SDAVF. Minimal access microsurgical
ligation was successfully performed through a tubular retractor using a
paramedian muscle-splitting approach.
CONCLUSION: With accurate localization of the fistulous point in each patient,
only a hemilaminectomy and a small dura opening were required using the
tube-assisted technique. This allows direct visualization and ligation of the
fistulous point while minimizing postoperative morbidities.

PMCID: PMC4466787
PMID: 26110081  [PubMed]


203. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Jun 4;6:97. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.158206. eCollection
2015.

A case of angiographically occult, distal small anterior inferior cerebellar
artery aneurysm.

Kubota H(1), Sanada Y(1), Nagatsuka K(1), Kato A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kinki University, Faculty of Medicine, Osaka,
Japan.

BACKGROUND: A small aneurysm at an unusual location, such as a distal anterior
inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) aneurysm, may conceal as a computed tomography 
angiography (CTA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA)-occult aneurysm.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We herein present the case of a patient suffering from a
subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with two aneurysms in which the AICA aneurysm was
negative by CTA and DSA. CTA demonstrated a right anterior choroidal artery
aneurysm, which was revealed to be an unruptured aneurysm after surgical
exploration. A small distal AICA aneurysm was detected by 3D rotational
angiography (3DRA). The patient fully recovered except for left-side hearing loss
four months after the second operation.
CONCLUSION: We recommend a meticulous diagnosis by 3DRA in patients with SAH in
which the distribution is not coincident with a typical aneurysmal location.

PMCID: PMC4462615
PMID: 26110079  [PubMed]


204. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Jun 4;6:96. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.158205. eCollection
2015.

Outcome of cerebral arteriovenous malformations after linear accelerator
reirradiation.

Moraes PL(1), Dias RS(2), Weltman E(3), Giordani AJ(2), Benabou S(4), Segreto
HR(2), Segreto RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Radioterapia do Hospital São Joaquim - Beneficência Portuguesa de
São Paulo and Universidade Federal de São Paulo/Escola Paulista de Medicina -
UNIFESP/EPM, São Paulo, S.P., Brazil. (2)Universidade Federal de São Paulo/Escola
Paulista de Medicina - UNIFESP/EPM, São Paulo, S.P., Brazil. (3)Hospital
Israelita Albert Einstein, and Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São
Paulo, São Paulo, S.P., Brazil. (4)Serviço de Radioterapia e Radiocirurgia do
Hospital Bandeirantes, São Paulo, S.P., Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical outcome of
patients undergoing single-dose reirradiation using the Linear Accelerator
(LINAC) for brain arteriovenous malformations (AVM).
METHODS: A retrospective study of 37 patients with brain AVM undergoing LINAC
reirradiation between April 2003 and November 2011 was carried out. Patient
characteristics, for example, gender, age, use of medications, and comorbidities;
disease characteristics, for example, Spetzler-Martin grading system, location,
volume, modified Pollock-Flickinger score; and treatment characteristics, for
example, embolization, prescription dose, radiation dose-volume curves, and
conformity index were analyzed. During the follow-up period, imaging studies were
performed to evaluate changes after treatment and AVM cure. Complications, such
as edema, rupture of the blood-brain barrier, and radionecrosis were classified
as symptomatic and asymptomatic.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients underwent angiogram after reirradiation and the
percentage of angiographic occlusion was 55.5%. In three patients without
obliteration, AVM shrinkage made it possible to perform surgical resection with a
2/3 cure rate. A reduction in AVM nidus volume greater than 50% after the first
procedure was shown to be the most important predictor of obliteration. Another
factor associated with AVM cure was a prescription dose higher than 15.5 Gy in
the first radiosurgery. Two patients had permanent neurologic deficits. Factors
correlated with complications were the prescription dose and maximum dose in the 
first procedure.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that single-dose reirradiation is safe and
feasible in partially occluded AVM. Reirradiation may not benefit candidates
whose prescribed dose was lower than 15.5 Gy in the first procedure and initial
AVM nidus volume did not decrease by more than 50% before reirradiation.

PMCID: PMC4462616
PMID: 26110078  [PubMed]


205. J Intensive Care. 2015 Jun 24;3(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s40560-015-0094-3.
eCollection 2015.

Effects of prehospital epinephrine administration on neurological outcomes in
patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

Ono Y(1), Hayakawa M(1), Wada T(1), Sawamura A(1), Gando S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Hokkaido University
Hospital, Kita 8, Nishi 5, Kita-ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-8648 Japan.

BACKGROUND: To determine if the effects of epinephrine administration on the
outcome of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA), patients are associated with
the duration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) performed by Emergency
Medical Service (EMS) personnel.
METHODS: This retrospective, nonrandomized, observational analysis used the
All-Japan Utstein Registry, a prospective, nationwide population-based registry
of all OHCA patients transported to the hospital by EMS staff as the data source.
We stratified all OHCA patients for quartile of EMSs' CPR duration. Group 1
consisted of patients who fell under the 25th percentile of EMSs' CPR duration
(under 15 min); group 2, patients who fell into the 25th to 50th percentile
(between 15 and 19 min); group 3, patients who fell into the 50th to 75th
percentile (between 20 and 26 min); and group 4, patients who fell at or above
the 75th percentile (over 26 min). The primary endpoint was a favorable
neurological outcome 1 month after cardiac arrest. The secondary endpoints were
ROSC before arrival at the hospital and 1-month survival.
RESULTS: A total of 383,811 patients aged over 18 years who had experienced OHCA 
between 2006 and 2010 in Japan, when stratified for quartile of EMSs' CPR
duration, the epinephrine administration increased the rate of return of
spontaneous circulation (ROSC) approximately tenfold in all groups. However, the 
beneficial effects of epinephrine administration on 1-month survival disappeared 
in patients on whom EMSs' CPR had been performed for more than 26 min, and the
beneficial effects of epinephrine administration on neurological outcomes were
observed only in patients on whom EMSs' CPR had been performed between 15 and 19 
min (odds ratio, 1.327, 95 % confidence intervals, 1.017-1.733 P = 0.037).
CONCLUSIONS: Epinephrine administration is associated with an increase of ROSC
and with improvement in the neurological outcome on which EMSs' CPR duration is
performed between 15 and 19 min.

PMCID: PMC4478688
PMID: 26110059  [PubMed]


206. J Mol Psychiatry. 2015 Jun 4;3(1):6. doi: 10.1186/s40303-015-0012-6. eCollection 
2015.

Characterization of cognitive deficits in spontaneously hypertensive rats,
accompanied by brain insulin receptor dysfunction.

Grünblatt E(1), Bartl J(2), Iuhos DI(3), Knezovic A(4), Trkulja V(4), Riederer
P(3), Walitza S(5), Salkovic-Petrisic M(4).

Author information: 
(1)University Clinics of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Zurich,
Neumuensterallee 9, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland ; Neuroscience Center Zurich,
University of Zurich and ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland ; University Hospital,
Clinic and Policlinic for Psychiatry, Psychosomatic and Psychotherapy, University
of Würzburg, Füchsleinstr. 15, D-97080 Würzburg, Germany ; University Clinics of 
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Zurich, Wagistrasse 12, CH-8952
Schlieren, Switzerland. (2)University Clinics of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry,
University of Zurich, Neumuensterallee 9, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland. (3)University
Hospital, Clinic and Policlinic for Psychiatry, Psychosomatic and Psychotherapy, 
University of Würzburg, Füchsleinstr. 15, D-97080 Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Croatian Institute for Brain Research, School
of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Salata 11, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)University Clinics of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Zurich,
Neumuensterallee 9, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland ; Neuroscience Center Zurich,
University of Zurich and ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) has been used to model
changes in the central nervous system associated with cognitive-related
disorders. Recent human and animal studies indicate a possible relationship
between cognitive deficits, insulin resistance and hypertension. We aimed to
investigate whether cognitively impaired SHRs develop central and/or peripheral
insulin resistance and how their cognitive performance is influenced by the
animal's sex and age as well as strains used for comparison (Wistar and
Wistar-Kyoto/WKY).
METHODS: Three and seven-month-old SHR, Wistar, and WKY rats were studied for
their cognitive performance using Morris Water Maze (MWM) and Passive Avoidance
tests (PAT). Plasma glucose and insulin were obtained after oral glucose
tolerance tests. Cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum status of
insulin-receptor (IR) β-subunit and glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β) and their
phosphorylated forms were obtained via ELISA.
RESULTS: SHRs performed poorly in MWM and PAT in comparison to both control
strains but more pronouncedly compared to WKY. Females performed poorer than
males and 7-month-old SHRs had poorer MWM performance than 3-month-old ones.
Although plasma glucose levels remained unchanged, plasma insulin levels were
significantly increased in the glucose tolerance test in 7-month-old SHRs. SHRs
demonstrated reduced expression and increased activity of IRβ-subunit in cerebral
cortex, hippocampus, and striatum with different regional changes in
phospho/total GSK3β ratio, as compared to WKYs.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that cognitive deficits in SHRs are accompanied by
both central and peripheral insulin dysfunction, thus allowing for the
speculation that SHRs might additionally be considered as a model of insulin
resistance-induced type of dementia.

PMCID: PMC4479234
PMID: 26110057  [PubMed]


207. Multidiscip Respir Med. 2015 Jun 11;10(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s40248-015-0017-0.
eCollection 2015.

Effects of Laminaria japonica polysaccharides on airway inflammation of lungs in 
an asthma mouse model.

Lin R(1), Liu X(1), Meng Y(2), Xu M(3), Guo J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University
Medical College, Qingdao, 266003 China. (2)Department of Pediatrics, People's
hospital of Zoucheng city, Jining, 273500 China. (3)Department of Pediatrics,
People's Hospital of Central District, Zaozhuang, 277101 China. (4)Department of 
Pediatrics, Women and Children's Hospital of Qingdao, Qingdao, 266011 China.

BACKGROUND: Asthma is a serious chronic inflammatory disease affecting 300
million people worldwide. This aim of this study to investigate the
anti-inflammatory and anti-asthmatic effects of Laminaria japonica extract in the
ovalbumin (OVA)-induced mouse asthma model.
METHODS: A mouse asthma model was established in SPF Kunming mice by
OVA-sensitization followed by inhalation of aerosol allergen for two weeks.
Laminaria japonica polysaccharides (LJPS) were given by gavage feeding at
50 mg/kg/day during OVA inhalation challenge period, and their effect on asthma
was compared with the standard treatment of Budesonide inhalation. The total
inflammatory cells and eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were
determined. Histopathological changes in lung tissue were studied and scored to
determine the degree of inflammation. Levels of IL-12, IL-13, and TGF-β1 in BALF 
as well as serum levels of IgE were measured. Expressions of IL-12, IL-13, and
TGF-β1 in lung tissues were assessed.
RESULTS: Highly inflammatory lungs infiltrated with significant increased
eosinophils were observed in OVA-induced asthmatic mice. The OVA treated mice
presented with a lower level of IL-12 and higher levels of IL-13 and TGF-β1 in
BALF and lung tissues, as well as an increased level of the serum IgE. Treatment 
with LJPS (Group B) significantly decreased the numbers of eosinophils in the
BALF (P < 0.05) and alleviated lung inflammation compared to the untreated asthma
mice (Group A). It also reduced the serum IgE levels, increased expression of
IL-12, and decreased the expression of IL-13 and TGF-β1 in BALF and lung (Both
P < 0.05) compared with the group A.
CONCLUSIONS: LJPS can significantly inhibit airway inflammation of asthmatic
mice, adjust the balance of cytokines, and improve the pulmonary
histopathological condition. Our data suggested that LJPS might be a potential
therapeutic reagent for allergic asthma.

PMCID: PMC4479343
PMID: 26110056  [PubMed]


208. Chemosens Percept. 2015;8(1):11-18. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

The Relationships Between Common Measurements of Taste Function.

Webb J(1), Bolhuis DP(1), Cicerale S(1), Hayes JE(2), Keast R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Advanced Sensory Science, School of Exercise and Nutrition
Sciences, Deakin University, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Victoria 3125
Australia. (2)Sensory Evaluation Center, College of Agricultural Sciences,
Pennsylvania State University, State College, PA USA.

BACKGROUND: There are five common, independent measures used to characterize
taste function in humans: detection and recognition thresholds (DT and RT),
suprathreshold intensity ratings of prototypical tastants, propylthiouracil
(PROP) bitterness intensity, and fungiform papillae (FP) number.
METHODS: We employed all five methods to assess taste function of 65 women
(21.5 ± 4 years, BMI 22.3 ± 2.8 kg/m(2)). Pearson correlation coefficients were
calculated between the different measures.
RESULTS: The DT and RT were positively correlated for sweet, bitter, sour, and
umami (p < 0.05), but not for salt. The DT or RT did not correlate with
suprathreshold intensity ratings, except for umami (suprathreshold intensity and 
RT: r = -0.32, p = 0.009). FP number did not correlate with any measurement of
taste function. PROP bitterness intensity ratings did not correlate with any
measurement of taste function, except for suprathreshold ratings for saltiness
(r = 0.26, p = 0.033).
CONCLUSION: As most of the individual measures of taste function did not
correlate with each other, with exception of the two threshold measures, we
conclude that there are multiple perceptual phases of taste, with no single
measure able to represent the sense of taste globally.

PMCID: PMC4475569
PMID: 26110045  [PubMed]


209. EPMA J. 2015 Jun 19;6(1):13. doi: 10.1186/s13167-015-0035-1. eCollection 2015.

The role of beneficial bacteria wall elasticity in regulating innate immune
response.

Мokrozub VV(1), Lazarenko LM(1), Sichel LM(2), Babenko LP(1), Lytvyn PM(3),
Demchenko OM(4), Melnichenko YO(1), Boyko NV(1), Biavati B(5), DiGioia D(5),
Bubnov RV(6), Spivak MY(7).

Author information: 
(1)Zabolotny Institute of Microbiology and Virology, National Academy of Sciences
of Ukraine, 154, Zabolotny st., Kyiv, D03680 Ukraine. (2)Pure Research Products, 
LLC, 6107, Chelsea Manor Court, Boulder, CO 80301 USA. (3)Lashkaryov Institute of
Semiconductor Physics, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 41, pr. Nauky,
Kyiv, 03028 Ukraine. (4)LCL «Diaprof», Svitlycky Str., 35, Kyiv, 04123 Ukraine.
(5)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Alma Mater Studiorum-Bologna University,
Bologna, 40127 Italy. (6)Zabolotny Institute of Microbiology and Virology,
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 154, Zabolotny st., Kyiv, D03680 Ukraine
; Clinical Hospital "Pheophania" of State Affairs Department, Zabolotny str., 21,
Kyiv, 03680 Ukraine. (7)Zabolotny Institute of Microbiology and Virology,
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 154, Zabolotny st., Kyiv, D03680 Ukraine
; LCL «Diaprof», Svitlycky Str., 35, Kyiv, 04123 Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: Probiotics have great potential to contribute to development of
healthy dietary regimes, preventive care, and an integrated approach to
immunity-related disease management. The bacterial wall is a dynamic entity,
depending on many components and playing an essential role in modulating immune
response. The impact of cell wall elasticity on the beneficial effects of
probiotic strains has not been sufficiently studied. The aim was to investigate
the effect of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and bifidobacteria strains on phagocytic
system cells (macrophages) as related to bacterial wall elasticity, estimated
using atomic force microscopy (AFM).
METHODS: We conducted studies on Balb/c line mice 18-20 g in weight using
lyophilized strains of LAB-Lactobacillus acidophilus IMV B-7279, Lactobacillus
casei IMV B-7280, Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus IMV B-7281, and
bifidobacteria-Bifidobacterium animalis VKL and Bifidobacterium animalis VKB. We 
cultivated the macrophages obtained from the peritoneal cavity of mice
individually with the strains of LAB and bifidobacteria and evaluated their
effect on macrophages, oxygen-dependent bactericidal activity, nitric oxide
production, and immunoregulatory cytokines. We used AFM scanning to estimate
bacterial cell wall elasticity.
RESULTS: All strains had a stimulating effect on the functional activity of
macrophages and ability to produce NO/NO2 in vitro. Lactobacilli strains
increased the production of IL-12 and IFN-γ in vitro. The AFM demonstrated
different cell wall elasticity levels in various strains of LAB and
bifidobacteria. The rigidity of the cell walls among lactobacilli was distributed
as follows: Lactobacillus acidophilus IMV B-7279 > Lactobacillus casei IMV B-7280
> Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus IMV B-7281; among the strains of
bifidobacteria: B. animalis VKB > B. animalis VKL. Probiotic strain survival in
the macrophages depended on the bacterial cell wall elasticity and on the time of
their joint cultivation.
CONCLUSION: LAB and bifidobacteria strains stimulate immune-modulatory cytokines 
and active oxygen and nitrogen oxide compound production in macrophages. Strains 
with a more elastic cell wall according to AFM data demonstrated higher
resistance to intracellular digestion in macrophages and higher level of their
activation. AFM might be considered as a fast and accurate method to assess
parameters of probiotic strain cell wall to predict their immune-modulatory
properties.

PMCID: PMC4479350
PMID: 26110044  [PubMed]


210. Clin Epigenetics. 2015 Jun 10;7(1):60. doi: 10.1186/s13148-015-0093-1.
eCollection 2015.

Insulin resistance is associated with epigenetic and genetic regulation of
mitochondrial DNA in obese humans.

Zheng LD(1), Linarelli LE(1), Liu L(1), Wall SS(1), Greenawald MH(2), Seidel
RW(3), Estabrooks PA(4), Almeida FA(1), Cheng Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Foods and Exercise, Fralin Translational
Obesity Research Center, College of Agriculture and Life Science, Virginia Tech, 
Blacksburg, Virginia USA. (2)Department of Family and Community Medicine,
Carilion Clinic, Roanoke, Virginia, USA. (3)Department of Psychiatry, Carilion
Clinic, Roanoke, Virginia, USA. (4)Department of Human Nutrition, Foods and
Exercise, Fralin Translational Obesity Research Center, College of Agriculture
and Life Science, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia USA ; Department of Family 
and Community Medicine, Carilion Clinic, Roanoke, Virginia, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial alterations have been observed in subjects with
metabolic disorders such as obesity and diabetes. Studies on animal models and
cell cultures suggest aberrant glucose and lipid levels, and impaired insulin
signaling might lead to mitochondrial changes. However, the molecular mechanism
underlying mitochondrial aberrance remains largely unexplored in human subjects.
RESULTS: Here we show that the mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNAn) was
significantly reduced (6.9-fold lower, p < 0.001) in the leukocytes from obese
humans (BMI >30). The reduction of mtDNAn was strongly associated with insulin
resistance (HOMA-IR: -0.703, p < 0.05; fasting insulin level: -0.015, p < 0.05); 
by contrast, the correlation between fasting glucose or lipid levels and mtDNAn
was not significant. Epigenetic study of the displacement loop (D-loop) region of
mitochondrial genome, which controls the replication and transcription of the
mitochondrial DNA as well as organization of the mitochondrial nucleoid, revealed
a dramatic increase of DNA methylation in obese (5.2-fold higher vs. lean
subjects, p < 0.05) and insulin-resistant (4.6-fold higher vs. insulin-sensitive 
subjects, p < 0.05) individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: The reduction of mtDNAn in obese human subjects is associated with
insulin resistance and may arise from increased D-loop methylation, suggesting an
insulin signaling-epigenetic-genetic axis in mitochondrial regulation.

PMCID: PMC4479353
PMID: 26110043  [PubMed]


211. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):285-94. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.030.
eCollection 2015.

Platelet satellitism in infectious disease?

Vidranski V(1), Laskaj R(2), Sikiric D(2), Skerk V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department for Nuclear Medicine and Oncology, University Clinical Hospital
Centre Sestre milosrdnice, Zagreb, Croatia. (2)Department for Medical
Biochemistry, Diagnostic Hematology and Cytology, University Hospital for
Infectious Diseases Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, Zagreb, Croatia. (3)Clinical Department 
for Urinary Tract Infections, University Hospital for Infectious Diseases Dr.
Fran Mihaljevic, Zagreb, Croatia.

BACKGROUND: Platelet satellitism is a phenomenon of unknown etiology of
aggregating platelets around polymorphonuclear neutrophils and other blood cells 
which causes pseudothrombocytopenia, visible by microscopic examination of blood 
smears. It has been observed so far in about a hundred cases in the world.
CASE SUBJECT AND METHODS: Our case involves a 73-year-old female patient with a
urinary infection. Biochemical serum analysis (CRP, glucose, AST, ALT, ALP, GGT, 
bilirubin, sodium, potassium, chloride, urea, creatinine) and blood cell count
were performed with standard methods on autoanalyzers. Serum protein fractions
were examined by electrophoresis and urinalysis with standard methods on
autoanalyzer together with microscopic examination of urine sediment. Erythrocyte
sedimentation rate, blood culture and urine culture tests were performed with
standard methods.
RESULTS: Due to typical pathological values for bacterial urinary infection, the 
patient was admitted to the hospital. Blood smear examination revealed
phenomenon, which has persisted for three weeks after the disease has been cured.
Blood smears with EDTA as an anticoagulant had platelet satellitism whereas the
phenomenon was not observed in tubes with different anticoagulants (Na,
Li-heparin) and capillary blood.
DISCUSSION: We hypothesize that satellitism was induced by some immunological
mechanism through formation of antibodies which have mediated platelets binding
to neutrophil membranes and vice versa. Unfortunately we were unable to determine
the putative trigger for this phenomenon. To our knowledge this is the second
case of platelet satellitism ever described in Croatia.

PMCID: PMC4470096
PMID: 26110042  [PubMed - in process]


212. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):279-84. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.029.
eCollection 2015.

A case report of short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCADD).

Lampret BR(1), Murko S(1), Debeljak M(1), Tansek MZ(1), Fister P(1), Battelino
T(2).

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Centre Ljubljana, University Children's Hospital,
Ljubljana, Slovenia. (2)University Medical Centre Ljubljana, University
Children's Hospital, Ljubljana, Slovenia ; University of Ljubljana, Faculty of
Medicine, Department of Paediatrics, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCADD) is a rare
inherited mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorder associated with variations 
in the ACADS (Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-2 to C-3 short chain) gene. SCADD has
highly variable biochemical, genetic and clinical characteristics. Phenotypes
vary from fatal metabolic decompensation to asymptomatic individuals.
SUBJECT AND METHODS: A Romani boy presented at 3 days after birth with
hypoglycaemia, hypotonia and respiratory pauses with brief generalized seizures. 
Afterwards the failure to thrive and developmental delay were present. Organic
acids analysis with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GS/MS) in urine and
acylcarnitines analysis with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry
(LC-MS/MS) in dried blood spot were measured. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was
isolated from blood and polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) were performed for all 
exons. Sequence analysis of all exons and flanking intron sequences of ACADS gene
was performed.
RESULTS: Organic acids analysis revealed increased concentration of ethylmalonic 
acid. Acylcarnitines analysis showed increase of butyrylcarnitine, C4-carnitine. 
C4-carnitine was 3.5 times above the reference range (<0.68 µmol/L). Confirmation
analysis for organic acids and acylcarnitine profile was performed on the second 
independent sample and showed the same pattern of increased metabolites. Sequence
analysis revealed 3-bp deletion at position 310-312 in homozygous state
(c.310_312delGAG). Mutation was previously described as pathogenic in
heterozygous state, while it is in homozygous state in our patient.
CONCLUSIONS: In our case clinical features of a patient, biochemical parameters
and genetic data were consistent and showed definitely SCAD deficiency.

PMCID: PMC4470102
PMID: 26110041  [PubMed - in process]


213. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):273-8. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.028.
eCollection 2015.

In vitro diagnostic company recalls and medical laboratory practices: an Italian 
case.

Lima-Oliveira G(1), Lippi G(2), Salvagno GL(1), Brocco G(1), Guidi GC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Biochemistry, Department of Life and Reproduction
Sciences, University of Verona, Italy. (2)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry and
Hematology, Academic Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: In vitro human diagnostic (IVD) company recalls are a common
practice aimed to either minimize a potential error or eliminate an existing
failure. In this case report, we aim to provide a critical analysis of a recent
IVD recall and to provide a practical framework about what to do when an IVD
company recalls product(s) based on the International Organization for
Standardization - ISO 15189:2012 standard.
CASE REPORT: In 2014, Abbott Laboratories® (Green Oaks, IL) published an urgent
field safety notice regarding a product recall (Architect Intact parathyroid
hormone (PTH) Assay List Number 8K25) with immediate action required. The IVD
company explained the reasons for the recall as follows: i) Abbott has confirmed 
that a performance shift in the Architect Intact PTH assay has the potential to
generate falsely elevated results on patient samples; ii) results generated with 
impacted lots may demonstrate a positive shift relative to those generated with
previous reagent and/or calibrator lots. This issue may also impact established
Architect Intact PTH reference ranges; iii) the magnitude of shift averages
approximately 13% to 45%; iv) Abbott Architect Intact PTH controls do not detect 
the shift; and v) all current reagent, calibrator, and control inventory are
impacted. The recall could have resulted in ~40,000 inaccurate laboratory tests
reported by 18 laboratories from Italy (Lombardy region).
CONCLUSION: IVD company recalls have a serious impact on the patient safety and
require a thorough investigation and responsible approach to minimize the
possible damage. Medical laboratories accredited according to the ISO 15189
standard have procedures in place to manage such situations and ensure that
patient safety is maintained when such recalls are issued.

PMCID: PMC4470101
PMID: 26110040  [PubMed - in process]


214. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):262-71. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.027.
eCollection 2015.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of acute kidney injury biomarkers in pediatric
cardiac surgery.

Petrovic S(1), Bogavac-Stanojevic N(1), Lakic D(2), Peco-Antic A(3), Vulicevic
I(4), Ivanisevic I(5), Kotur-Stevuljevic J(1), Jelic-Ivanovic Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia. (2)Department of Social Pharmacy and Pharmacy
Legislation, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia ; Department of
Nephrology, University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia. (4)Department of
Cardio-surgery, University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia. (5)Department
of Nephrology, University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia.

INTRODUCTION: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is significant problem in children with
congenital heart disease (CHD) who undergo cardiac surgery. The economic impact
of a biomarker-based diagnostic strategy for AKI in pediatric populations
undergoing CHD surgery is unknown. The aim of this study was to perform the cost 
effectiveness analysis of using serum cystatin C (sCysC), urine neutrophil
gelatinase-associated lipocalin (uNGAL) and urine liver fatty acid-binding
protein (uL-FABP) for the diagnosis of AKI in children after cardiac surgery
compared with current diagnostic method (monitoring of serum creatinine (sCr)
level).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a decision analytical model to estimate
incremental cost-effectiveness of different biomarker-based diagnostic strategies
compared to current diagnostic strategy. The Markov model was created to compare 
the lifetime cost associated with using of sCysC, uNGAL, uL-FABP with monitoring 
of sCr level for the diagnosis of AKI. The utility measurement included in the
analysis was quality-adjusted life years (QALY). The results of the analysis are 
presented as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Analysed biomarker-based diagnostic strategies for AKI were
cost-effective compared to current diagnostic method. However, uNGAL and sCys C
strategies yielded higher costs and lower effectiveness compared to uL-FABP
strategy. uL-FABP added 1.43 QALY compared to current diagnostic method at an
additional cost of $8521.87 per patient. Therefore, ICER for uL-FABP compared to 
sCr was $5959.35/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the use of uL-FABP would represent cost
effective strategy for early diagnosis of AKI in children after cardiac surgery.

PMCID: PMC4470097
PMID: 26110039  [PubMed - in process]


215. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):252-61. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.026.
eCollection 2015.

Liver transplantation reverses hypergammaglobulinemia in patients with chronic
hepatic failure.

Lebherz-Eichinger D(1), Schwarzer R(2), Motal MC(3), Klaus DA(3), Mangold A(4),
Ankersmit HJ(5), Berlakovich GA(6), Krenn CG(3), Roth GA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, General Intensive Care and Pain Medicine,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria ; Christian Doppler Laboratory for 
Cardiac and Thoracic Diagnosis and Regeneration, Medical University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria ; RAIC Laboratory 13C1, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna,
Austria. (2)Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria. (3)Department of Anesthesiology, General Intensive Care and Pain
Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria ; RAIC Laboratory 13C1,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (4)Christian Doppler Laboratory
for Cardiac and Thoracic Diagnosis and Regeneration, Medical University of
Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (5)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Cardiac and Thoracic
Diagnosis and Regeneration, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria ;
Department of Thoracic Surgery, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(6)Department of Transplant Surgery, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

INTRODUCTION: Sparse data are available about the effect of therapy methods on
antibody levels in patients with liver failure. The aim of this study was to
determine serum immunoglobulin concentrations in patients with chronic hepatic
failure (CHF), acute- (ALF), or acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) and to
evaluate the impact of MARS treatment or liver transplantation (LT) on antibody
levels.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We followed ten patients with ALF, twelve with ACLF and 18
with CHF. Eight patients with ALF and seven with ACLF underwent MARS therapy,
whereas the rest received LT. 13 healthy volunteers served as controls. Serum
antibody concentrations were measured using ELISA-technique.
RESULTS: Median serum levels of IgA, IgG and IgM were significantly increased in 
patients with CHF compared to ALF or controls (P < 0.02, P < 0.01, and P < 0.01).
IgM and IgG concentrations were also significantly elevated in patients with CHF 
compared to ACLF (IgM, 3.7 vs. 1 g/L, P < 0.001; IgG, 8.7 vs. 3.1 g/L, P =
0.004). Immediately after LT a significant decrease of IgA (6.9 vs. 3.1 g/L, P = 
0.004), IgG (8.7 vs. 5.1 g/L, P = 0.02) and IgM (3.7 vs. 1.8 g/L, P = 0.001) was 
detected in patients with CHF and antibody levels further decreased the days
after LT reaching levels comparable to healthy individuals. MARS treatment had no
apparent effect on the immunoglobulin profile in patients with ALF or ACLF.
CONCLUSION: We provide evidence that LT reverses hypergammaglobulinemia in
patients suffering from CHF within one day, which could be explained to a
reconstituted hepatic antibody clearance, whereas MARS treatment has no immediate
effect on immunoglobulin levels.

PMCID: PMC4470094
PMID: 26110038  [PubMed - in process]


216. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):242-51. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.025.
eCollection 2015.

Circulating resistin protein and mRNA concentrations and clinical severity of
coronary artery disease.

Joksic J(1), Sopic M(1), Spasojevic-Kalimanovska V(1), Kalimanovska-Ostric D(2), 
Andjelkovic K(3), Jelic-Ivanovic Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia. (2)Institute for Cardiovascular Diseases, Clinical
Center of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia ; School of medicine, University of Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia. (3)Institute for Cardiovascular Diseases, Clinical Center of
Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.

INTRODUCTION: Previous studies have implicated a strong link between circulating 
plasma resistin and coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of this study was to
evaluate the differences in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) resistin
mRNA and its plasma protein concentrations between the patients with CAD of
different clinical severity.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study included 33 healthy subjects as the control
group (CG) and 77 patients requiring coronary angiography. Of the latter 30 was
CAD negative whereas 47 were CAD positive [18 with stable angina pectoris (SAP)
and 29 with acute coronary syndrome (ACS)]. Circulating resistin was measured by 
ELISA; PBMC resistin mRNA was determined by real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Resistin protein was significantly higher in the ACS group compared to
the CG (P = 0.001) and the CAD negative group (P = 0.018). Resistin mRNA
expression did not vary across the study groups, despite the positive correlation
seen with plasma resistin (ρ = 0.305, P = 0.008). In patients, plasma resistin
and PBMC resistin mRNA negatively correlated with HDL-C (ρ = -0.404, P < 0.001
and ρ = -0.257, P = 0.032, respectively). Furthermore, the highest plasma
resistin tertile showed the lowest HDL-C (P = 0.006). Plasma resistin was
positively associated with serum creatinine (ρ = 0.353, P = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: Significant increase of plasma resistin in patients with ACS compared
to CG and CAD negative patients was observed. Despite no change in PBMC resistin 
mRNA in different disease conditions a positive association between resistin mRNA
and resistin plasma protein was evident. Both plasma resistin and PBMC resistin
mRNA were negatively associated with plasma HDL-C, and plasma resistin positively
with serum creatinine.

PMCID: PMC4470098
PMID: 26110037  [PubMed - in process]


217. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):237-41. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.024.
eCollection 2015.

Education and communication is the key for the successful management of vitamin D
test requesting.

Salinas M(1), López-Garrigós M(1), Flores E(2), Leiva-Salinas M(3), Ahumada M(4),
Leiva-Salinas C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Laboratory, Hospital Universitario de San Juan, San Juan de Alicante,
Spain ; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pathology, Universidad Miguel
Hernandez, Elche, Spain. (2)Clinical Laboratory, Hospital Universitario de San
Juan, San Juan de Alicante, Spain ; Department of Clinical Medicine, Universidad 
Miguel Hernandez, Elche, Spain. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Pathology, Universidad Miguel Hernandez, Elche, Spain. (4)Department of Clinical 
Medicine, Universidad Miguel Hernandez, Elche, Spain. (5)Department of Radiology,
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Pre-preanalytical and post-postanalytical phases are steps where
the laboratory professional may play a crucial role. Measuring the serum
circulating 25 hydroxyvitamin D level (25(OH)D) is recommended to evaluate
vitamin D status in patients at risk for vitamin D deficiency while 1,25
hydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) is only recommended to monitor several particular
conditions (chronic kidney disease, hereditary phosphate-losing disorders, and
some other) clearly defined by the current clinical guidelines of Endocrine
Society. Our research hypothesis was that through education and communication
through comments in the Laboratory Information System (LIS), we could improve
appropriateness in the request vitamin D tests.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective observational cross-sectional study was
conducted from January 2005 to December 2014. Each 1,25(OH)2D request was
reviewed individually by a member of the laboratory staff. Starting in November
2011, each inappropriate 1,25(OH)2D request was registered in LIS and 25(OH)D was
measured instead of 1,25(OH)2D. We counted the overall number of 1,25(OH)2D
requests and the number of inappropriate requests which then were marked with a
comment.
RESULTS: The request of 25(OH)D increased along years. However, 1,25(OH)2D
requests increased until 2012 when demand began to diminish.
CONCLUSIONS: Education and communication through comments in the LIS, corrected
the inappropriate request of 1,25(OH)2D and promoted the use of 25(OH)D to study 
vitamin D deficiency.

PMCID: PMC4470103
PMID: 26110036  [PubMed - in process]


218. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):230-6. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.023.
eCollection 2015.

How well are pregnant women in Croatia informed about the oral glucose tolerance 
test?

Radovanovic PB(1), Kocijancic M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of transfusion medicine, General hospital Pula, Croatia. (2)Medical
biochemistry laboratory of Primorsko-goranska county health care Rijeka, Rijeka, 
Croatia.

INTRODUCTION: Preanalytical errors still constitute the largest source of errors 
in laboratory work. Proper patient preparation and patient's knowledge about a
particular procedure affects its accuracy and reliability. We hypothesized that
most of pregnant women are not well enough informed about the proper procedure
for the OGTT. The aims of this study were to investigate: (i) how well pregnant
women are informed about the OGTT; (ii) the most common way to inform pregnant
women about OGTT and (iii) whether pregnant women's level of knowledge about the 
OGTT differ regarding source of information.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anonymous questionnaire was conducted across the
country in 23 Croatian primary and secondary healthcare centres. The
questionnaire contained 9 questions on certain demographic data and familiarity
with OGTT procedure. All 343 participants filled the questionnaire before the
first blood draw.
RESULTS: 42% of the participants demonstrated high and 38% adequate level of
knowledge about the OGTT procedure. Majority of participants were informed about 
the procedure by gynaecologist (56%). The level of knowledge differed among
participants with different sources of information (P = 0.030). Further analysis 
showed that the level of knowledge was lower in pregnant women having received
information from their gynaecologist compared to pregnant women who received
information from the laboratory staff.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, pregnant women are familiar with OGTT procedure, main
source of information about the OGTT procedure is their gynaecologist, but the
level of knowledge was higher in women who received information about the OGTT
procedure from the laboratory staff.

PMCID: PMC4470100
PMID: 26110035  [PubMed - in process]


219. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):222-9. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.022.
eCollection 2015.

Plasma centrifugation does not influence thrombin-antithrombin and
plasmin-antiplasmin levels but determines platelet microparticles count.

Stępień E(1), Gruszczyński K(2), Kapusta P(3), Kowalik A(2), Wybrańska I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Krakow, Poland ; Laboratory for Molecular Biology and Research, John Paul II
Hospital, Krakow, Poland. (2)Department of Molecular Diagnostics, Holycross
Cancer Centre, Kielce, Poland. (3)Laboratory for Molecular Biology and Research, 
John Paul II Hospital, Krakow, Poland. (4)Department of Clinical Biochemistry,
Jagiellonian University Medical College, Krakow, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Centrifugation is an essential step for plasma preparation to
remove residual elements in plasma, especially platelets and platelet-derived
microparticles (PMPs). Our working hypothesis was that centrifugation as a
preanalytical step may influence some coagulation parameters.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Healthy young men were recruited (N = 17). For
centrifugation, two protocols were applied: (A) the first centrifugation at 2500 
x g for 15 min and (B) at 2500 x g for 20 min at room temperature with a light
brake. In protocol (A), the second centrifugation was carried out at 2500 x g for
15 min, whereas in protocol (B), the second centrifugation involved a 10 min spin
at 13,000 x g. Thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) and plasmin-antiplasmin (PAP)
complexes concentrations were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.
PMPs were stained with CD41 antibody and annexin V, and analyzed by flow
cytometry method. Procoagulant activity was assayed by the Calibrated Automated
Thrombogram method as a slope of thrombin formation (CAT velocity).
RESULTS: Median TAT and PAP concentrations did not differ between the
centrifugation protocols. The high speed centrifugation reduced the median (IQR) 
PMP count in plasma from 1291 (841-1975) to 573 (391-1010) PMP/µL (P = 0.001),
and CAT velocity from 2.01 (1.31-2.88) to 0.97 (0.82-1.73) nM/min (P = 0.049).
Spearman's rank correlation analysis showed correlation between TAT and PMPs in
the protocol A plasma which was (rho = 0.52, P < 0.050) and between PMPs and CAT 
for protocol A (rho = 0.74, P < 0.050) and protocol B (rho = 0.78, P < 0.050).
CONCLUSION: Centrifugation protocols do not influence the markers of plasminogen 
(PAP) and thrombin (TAT) generation but they do affect the PMP count and
procoagulant activity.

PMCID: PMC4470109
PMID: 26110034  [PubMed - in process]


220. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):213-21. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.021.
eCollection 2015.

National survey on intra-laboratory turnaround time for some most common routine 
and stat laboratory analyses in 479 laboratories in China.

Fei Y(1), Zeng R(1), Wang W(1), He F(1), Zhong K(1), Wang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Clinical Laboratories, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, P.R.
China.

INTRODUCTION: To investigate the state of the art of intra-laboratory turnaround 
time (intra-TAT), provide suggestions and find out whether laboratories
accredited by International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 15189 or
College of American Pathologists (CAP) will show better performance on intra-TAT 
than non-accredited ones.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 479 Chinese clinical laboratories participating in the
external quality assessment programs of chemistry, blood gas, and haematology
tests organized by the National Centre for Clinical Laboratories in China were
included in our study. General information and the median of intra-TAT of routine
and stat tests in last one week were asked in the questionnaires.
RESULTS: The response rate of clinical biochemistry, blood gas, and haematology
testing were 36% (479 / 1307), 38% (228 / 598), and 36% (449 / 1250),
respectively. More than 50% of laboratories indicated that they had set up
intra-TAT median goals and almost 60% of laboratories declared they had monitored
intra-TAT generally for every analyte they performed. Among all analytes we
investigated, the intra-TAT of haematology analytes was shorter than biochemistry
while the intra-TAT of blood gas analytes was the shortest. There were
significant differences between median intra-TAT on different days of the week
for routine tests. However, there were no significant differences in median
intra-TAT reported by accredited laboratories and non-accredited laboratories.
CONCLUSIONS: Many laboratories in China are aware of intra-TAT control and are
making effort to reach the target. There is still space for improvement.
Accredited laboratories have better status on intra-TAT monitoring and target
setting than the non-accredited, but there are no significant differences in
median intra-TAT reported by them.

PMCID: PMC4470099
PMID: 26110033  [PubMed - in process]


221. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):203-12. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.020.
eCollection 2015.

Method evaluation study of a new generation of vitamin D assays.

Enko D(1), Kriegshäuser G(1), Stolba R(1), Worf E(1), Halwachs-Baumann G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, General Hospital Steyr, Steyr, Austria.

INTRODUCTION: Recently several diagnostic manufacturers have launched new
25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25[OH]D) assays, which are aligned to the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Standard Reference Materials (SRM)
(NIST, Gaithersburg, Maryland). The aim of this study was to compare the
performance of one liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)
method, one enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and one recalibrated and
previous version of a chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Serum-aliquots of 198 patient samples from routine 25(OH)D 
analysis were measured by the ClinMass® LC-MS/MS Complete Kit (RECIPE Chemicals +
Instruments GmbH, Munich, Germany), the ORGENTEC 25(OH)D3/D2 ELISA (ORGENTEC
Diagnostika GmbH, Mainz, Germany), the recalibrated Immunodiagnostic Systems
(IDS)-iSYS 25(OH)D(S) and the previous used IDS-iSYS 25(OH)D CLIA
(Immunodiagnostic Systems Ltd, Boldon, United Kingdom). Bland-Altman and Deming
regression analyses were calculated for methods comparison of all tested 25(OH)D 
assays. The LC-MS/MS method was defined as the reference method. Within-run and
between-run precision measurements were performed for all methods with three
different concentration levels.
RESULTS: Compared to the LC-MS/MS method, the new IDS-iSYS 25(OH)D(S) and
ORGENTEC 25(OH)D3/D2 assay demonstrated mean relative biases of 16.3% and 17.8%. 
The IDS-iSYS 25(OH)D assay showed the lowest mean bias of 1.5%. Deming regression
analyses of the recalibrated IDS-iSYS 25(OH)D(S) and the ORGENTEC 25(OH)D3/D2
assay showed proportional differences, when compared to the reference method. All
assays showed a within-run and between-run imprecision of ≤ 20% at each of the
evaluated concentration levels.
CONCLUSIONS: The evaluated standardized immunoassays and LC-MS/MS are useful
methods for measuring 25(OH)D serum-levels in clinical laboratories.

PMCID: PMC4470105
PMID: 26110032  [PubMed - in process]


222. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2015 Jun 5;25(2):193-202. doi: 10.11613/BM.2015.019.
eCollection 2015.

Croatian survey on critical results reporting.

Kopcinovic LM(1), Trifunović J(2), Pavosevic T(3), Nikolac N(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Chemistry, University Hospital Sestre Milosrdnice,
Zagreb, Croatia. (2)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Special Hospital for
Medical Rehabilitation Varazdinske Toplice, Varazdinske Toplice, Croatia.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory Diagnostics, Clinical Hospital Centre
Osijek, Osijek, Croatia.

INTRODUCTION: Poor harmonization of critical results management is present in
various laboratories and countries, including Croatia. We aimed to investigate
procedures used in critical results reporting in Croatian medical biochemistry
laboratories (MBLs).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An anonymous questionnaire, consisting of 24
questions/statements, related to critical results reporting procedures, was send 
to managers of MBLs in Croatia. Participants were asked to declare the frequency 
of performing procedures and degree of agreement with statements about critical
values reporting using a Likert scale. Total score and mean scores for
corresponding separate statements divided according to health care setting were
calculated and compared.
RESULTS: Responses from 111 Croatian laboratories (48%) were analyzed. General
practice laboratories (GPLs) more often re-analyzed the sample before reporting
the critical result in comparison with the hospital laboratories (HLs) (score:
4.86 (4.75-4.96) vs. 4.49 (4.25-4.72); P = 0.001) and more often reported the
critical value exclusively to the responsible physician compared to HLs (4.46
(4.29-4.64) vs. 3.76 (3.48-4.03), P < 0.001). High total score (4.69 (4.56-4.82))
was observed for selection of the critical results list issued by the Croatian
Chamber of Medical Biochemistry (CCMB) indicating a high harmonization level for 
this aspect of critical result management. Low total scores were observed for the
statements regarding data recording and documentation of critical result
notification.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in practices about critical results reporting between
HLs and GPLs were found. The homogeneity of least favorable responses detected
for data recording and documentation of critical results notification reflects
the lack of specific national recommendations.

PMCID: PMC4470108
PMID: 26110031  [PubMed - in process]


223. Diabetol Metab Syndr. 2015 Jun 24;7:55. doi: 10.1186/s13098-015-0052-1.
eCollection 2015.

Insulin mediated improvement in glycemic control in elderly with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus can improve depressive symptoms and does not seem to impair
health-related quality of life.

Oliveira RA(1), Tostes M(1), Queiroz VA(1), Rodacki M(1), Zajdenverg L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrology and Diabetes Section, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is very prevalent among the
elderly. Insulin therapy is often required for glycemic control. The association 
of starting this therapy with depressive symptoms as well the health-related
quality of life (HRQoL) is unknown among the elderly patients.
AIMS: Evaluate the association of starting insulin therapy depressive symptoms as
well with HRQoL of elderly people with T2D.
METHODS: 36 T2D participants (67.9 % females, age 66.5 years ± 5.1) were
recruited, 26 of whom completed the follow-up. Generic (Short-Form 36 Health
Survey - SF-36) and specific (Problem Areas in Diabetes - PAID) HRQoL
questionnaires, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), clinical, laboratorial and
socio-demographic data were recorded on baseline and 6 months after the beginning
of insulin treatment.
RESULTS: There was a reduction in the BDI score after the use of insulin, which
means an improvement in depressive symptoms (Before/After: median - 10.5 / 7;
p = 0008). There were no statistically significant differences in HRQoL scores
between the two time periods There was also a reduction in HbA1c (Before/After:
median - 8.7/7.9). Otherwise, there were no statistically significant differences
in: BMI (28.1/28.3); Abdominal circumference:(100.5/99.5) and chronic
complications status.
CONCLUSION: Insulin therapy in elderly people with type 2 diabetes can lead to an
improvement of depressive symptoms and does not seem to affect negatively HRQoL
of the participants.

PMCID: PMC4478689
PMID: 26110026  [PubMed]


224. J Cheminform. 2015 Jun 25;7:32. doi: 10.1186/s13321-015-0082-6. eCollection 2015.

QSAR DataBank repository: open and linked qualitative and quantitative
structure-activity relationship models.

Ruusmann V(1), Sild S(1), Maran U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemistry, University of Tartu, Ravila 14a, 50411 Tartu, Estonia.

BACKGROUND: Structure-activity relationship models have been used to gain insight
into chemical and physical processes in biomedicine, toxicology, biotechnology,
etc. for almost a century. They have been recognized as valuable tools in
decision support workflows for qualitative and quantitative predictions. The main
obstacle preventing broader adoption of quantitative structure-activity
relationships [(Q)SARs] is that published models are still relatively difficult
to discover, retrieve and redeploy in a modern computer-oriented environment.
This publication describes a digital repository that makes in silico (Q)SAR-type 
descriptive and predictive models archivable, citable and usable in a novel way
for most common research and applied science purposes.
DESCRIPTION: The QSAR DataBank (QsarDB) repository aims to make the processes and
outcomes of in silico modelling work transparent, reproducible and accessible.
Briefly, the models are represented in the QsarDB data format and stored in a
content-aware repository (a.k.a. smart repository). Content awareness has two
dimensions. First, models are organized into collections and then into collection
hierarchies based on their metadata. Second, the repository is not only an
environment for browsing and downloading models (the QDB archive) but also offers
integrated services, such as model analysis and visualization and prediction
making.
CONCLUSIONS: The QsarDB repository unlocks the potential of descriptive and
predictive in silico (Q)SAR-type models by allowing new and different types of
collaboration between model developers and model users. The key enabling factor
is the representation of (Q)SAR models in the QsarDB data format, which makes it 
easy to preserve and share all relevant data, information and knowledge. Model
developers can become more productive by effectively reusing prior art. Model
users can make more confident decisions by relying on supporting information that
is larger and more diverse than before. Furthermore, the smart repository
automates most of the mundane work (e.g., collecting, systematizing, and
reporting data), thereby reducing the time to decision.

PMCID: PMC4479250
PMID: 26110025  [PubMed]


225. J Cheminform. 2015 May 22;7:22. doi: 10.1186/s13321-015-0073-7. eCollection 2015.

WikiHyperGlossary (WHG): an information literacy technology for chemistry
documents.

Bauer MA(1), Berleant D(2), Cornell AP(3), Belford RE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Myeloma Institute for Research and Therapy, University of Arkansas for Medical
Sciences, 4301 West Markham, Slot 776, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA. (2)Department
of Information Science, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, 2801 S. University
Avenue, Little Rock, AR 72204 USA. (3)Department of Chemistry, University of
Arkansas at Little Rock, 2801 S. University Avenue, Little Rock, AR 72204 USA.

BACKGROUND: The WikiHyperGlossary is an information literacy technology that was 
created to enhance reading comprehension of documents by connecting them to
socially generated multimedia definitions as well as semantically relevant data. 
The WikiHyperGlossary enhances reading comprehension by using the lexicon of a
discipline to generate dynamic links in a document to external resources that can
provide implicit information the document did not explicitly provide. Currently, 
the most common method to acquire additional information when reading a document 
is to access a search engine and browse the web. This may lead to skimming of
multiple documents with the novice actually never returning to the original
document of interest. The WikiHyperGlossary automatically brings information to
the user within the current document they are reading, enhancing the potential
for deeper document understanding.
RESULTS: The WikiHyperGlossary allows users to submit a web URL or text to be
processed against a chosen lexicon, returning the document with tagged terms. The
selection of a tagged term results in the appearance of the WikiHyperGlossary
Portlet containing a definition, and depending on the type of word, tabs to
additional information and resources. Current types of content include multimedia
enhanced definitions, ChemSpider query results, 3D molecular structures, and 2D
editable structures connected to ChemSpider queries. Existing glossaries can be
bulk uploaded, locked for editing and associated with multiple social generated
definitions.
CONCLUSION: The WikiHyperGlossary leverages both social and semantic web
technologies to bring relevant information to a document. This can not only aid
reading comprehension, but increases the users' ability to obtain additional
information within the document. We have demonstrated a molecular editor enabled 
knowledge framework that can result in a semantic web inductive reasoning
process, and integration of the WikiHyperGlossary into other software
technologies, like the Jikitou Biomedical Question and Answer system. Although
this work was developed in the chemical sciences and took advantage of open
science resources and initiatives, the technology is extensible to other
knowledge domains. Through the DeepLit (Deeper Literacy: Connecting Documents to 
Data and Discourse) startup, we seek to extend WikiHyperGlossary technologies to 
other knowledge domains, and integrate them into other knowledge acquisition
workflows.

PMCID: PMC4477724
PMID: 26110024  [PubMed]
